This is absolutely unbelievable. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you.So this began as 500 people in a ballroom in Phoenix. And the hotel called us up and they said, "Please don't do it here. We're going to be swamped. It's going to destroy the building. It's been amazing."And outside, sadly, we have thousands of people that can't get in. So you know real estate. You know real estate.I want to thank everybody. You know, last night -- and a lot of you saw it on television -- it was actually carried live -- we had an amazing event and a very sad event. And yet, very beautiful. Because the word is getting out that we have to stop illegal immigration. We have to. We have to.We have a situation that's absolutely out of control.We have incompetent politicians, not only the President.I mean, right here in your own state, you have John McCain. I just hate to see when people don't have common sense, don't have an understanding of what's going on, or perhaps don't want to know. Maybe it's campaign contributions. Maybe it's special interest. Maybe it's lobbyists. But for some reason, some people don't get it and I don't think they'll be in office much longer. I really mean that.We are going to make this country so great again. We are going to work so hard.And I will say this: When we had our event last night, I saw hardened veteran reporters who were crying. You had to see this. People that I've known for a long time that I don't even like -- they're not good people.How are you doing back there?And one in particular, tears are streaming down his face and I'm saying -- I don't believe what I'm seeing. I didn't think he had a tear in him.And some of the people that spoke were absolutely amazing.One, their child was killed by an illegal immigrant, shouldn't have been here.And this began for me -- it's very interesting because when I started and when I announced -- don't forget, everybody said, "He's never going to run." Right?Then they said very strongly -- you know, these are very knowledgeable people; they don't know anything. Then they said, "He'll never file his FEC paper." I filed that two weeks ago. They said, "Oh, wow."Then they said, "He'll never file his financials because he's not as rich as people think." And they get filed during this week. And by the way, some of the other candidates will not be filing from what I hear. OK?And when they filed, the number is actually much higher than anybody ever knew. And I'm not saying that to brag. I'm only saying that because that is the kind of thinking our country needs.We need thinking where trade deals with China, with Japan, with India, with everybody. We're getting ripped. We're being taken apart piece by piece, slowly. Slowly.China laughs at us. They laugh at our stupidity. They laugh at our incompetent politicians. They have geniuses negotiating for them. We have people who don't have a clue; they don't have a clue.Mexico -- and by the way. Officially -- and I've only said this about 200 times but it never gets reported. I love the Mexican people. I love the spirit of the Mexican people. I love them.Many, many people from Mexico -- legal. They went in the old fashioned way. They're legal.Many, many people from Mexico work for me. And over the years, thousands of people -- Hispanics -- have worked for me. And many, many work for me now by thousands. They're incredible people.By the way, nobody ever says that. Nobody ever says that. They always cut that out.And I'll go a step further. I respect Mexico greatly as a country. But the problem we have is that their leaders are much smarter, sharper, and more cunning than our leaders, and they're killing us at the border and they're killing us in trade. They're killing us.And every once in a while I'll see a rally and it's put up by the Mexican government in my opinion. People come in. They're so perfect. They're like central casting. And you know how long the rallies last? Like about 12 minutes. They go home.But when you do -- I've said this often. It's very, very hard for a very successful person -- and I've heard it from the time I was a little boy -- to run for President or even political office. And I find it and I have headlines every day. "ESPN drops Trump".A friend of mine in Paris called. "Oh Don, it's too bad about ESPN." You know what they were doing? They rented my golf club for a day. They put up a big deposit. I took their deposit. And then I rented it to somebody else. I made two for the price of one. No, it's true.Then the next day all over the world, "NASCAR drops Trump." NASCAR. NASCAR. And then friends of mine call up from Europe. Headlines -- NASCAR. "Don, it's too bad about NASCAR. I feel so --" You know what that one was? They rented a banquet hall at Trump National Doral in Miami for one evening. I took their deposit -- I took their deposit. And you know what? I just rented it for much more money than they were paying. So it's two for the price of one.You know, I may make money running for President. It's very interesting.Then all over the place, I hear Macy's. Now, Macy's hurts because the head of Macy's I thought was a great friend of mine -- Terry Lundgren. Nice guy. He called me up, and I'm in New Hampshire and I'm getting ready to go on to make a speech.Sort of interesting. It's like 6:30 in the evening, and I get a call from Terry Lundgren of Macy's.And the speech is packed. It was a house. It was supposed to be in the house. They didn't have enough room. They had 300, 400 people and they never thought this was going to happen. They thought there were going to be 30 like this. This is a little larger but the same thing proportionally.So my phone rings -- my cell phone, and it's Terry Lundgren of Macy's. And the man on stage is getting ready to introduce me. And he said, "And you know, we have Donald Trump -- the American dream" and blah, blah, blah, blah -- everything. And my phone rings during the introduction. I'm going to be going up there like in a minute.And he goes -- "Donald, hi." He's like my best friend. I said, "Terry, what's your problem?" He said, "You're very controversial." He said -- and I'm supposed to be going up. I'm supposed to make a speech. I got all these people.And by the way, cameras -- just like all these cameras -- you have all these cameras -- we're on live television all over the place like we are now.And he said, "Donald, I had calls from Hispanic people saying they're going to boycott Macy's. I don't know what to do."I said, "Terry, be tough. They'll be gone. One day, one day."Now, this is a man I played golf with. I'm with him all the time. I mean, really was, was, was -- you understand -- because I don't forget things...He said to me, "Please, please, Donald. Can I cut you?"It's not a big deal. I'm selling ties. And honestly, you know what? They were made in China so I didn't care that much. I was like screw it.So I'm walking up the stairs to make a speech and I have Lundgren saying "I'd like to cut you" because he's going to get some bad publicity, he thinks.And I walked upstairs and he said, "And now the American dream -- ". And I'm still talking to Lundgren, and it's like a minute and a half before I walk on stage. People said, "What happened?" And I made a good speech. No notes. No nothing. And everybody was happy. And I just got cut from Macy's.And here's the bottom line on Macy's. Thousands and thousands of people are cutting up their Macy's credit card. Thousands.Then I get a call from NBC. Now, let me tell you about NBC. No, no, I got to tell you. Hey, look, I love the people at NBC. We had a tremendous success with The Apprentice. And they renewed The Apprentice.See? I give up a lot. You're going to see how much money I made with The Apprentice come Wednesday or Thursday when I do my filing. Seriously. It's a very lucrative -- you know, it's great when you have a big television show. It's like, you know, you're a movie star; you get a lot of money. Right? Not that much but a lot. But you're going to see very impressive numbers.So NBC calls me -- "We'd like to see you."Now, they don't care about inclusion. They were talking about inclusion. You know, they write their press release. So, I read this and I say, "This is incredible".But they called me and a couple of months ago the head of NBC comes to see me. And the head of NBC's boss -- I don't want to mention names because they're really good people. They're friends of mine although I'll probably never speak to them again either.And you know, the head of NBC's boss -- that's Comcast because they own NBC.So I get a call -- the head of reality for NBC, the head president of NBC, and the head of everything -- the head of Comcast. And they come to see me a number of months ago, "Please do The Apprentice. Please." They won't deny it. They won't deny it.I said, "I can't. I want to make America great again."I've done The Apprentice now for 12 years and it's a great show. For 12 years. There have 14 or 15 copies of The Apprentice. Every one have failed. Every single one. I mean, I could give you names but I don't want to embarrass people.Nah, give you a couple of names.No, nice people. Mark Cuban did one called The Benefactor. It was a disaster. Richard Branson did one. Great guy but it didn't work out. Tommy Hilfiger, who I love. A tenant in my building. Great guy. Didn't work out. Hiltons did one.Martha Stewart did one for us. Did one for Mark Burnett and Donald Trump. Martha Stewart. She'd just got out of the can. No, it's true. She's hot as a pistol. You know, they showed her coming out. You know, she's got the whole thing with the whole outfit that she's wearing. The whole thing. I said, "What a great idea."So we actually did The Apprentice done by us. It wasn't even a copy. It was called The Apprentice. Within a couple of shows it was over. It was over.So I must have something, right? I must have.So here's the story. NBC sees this. I mean, they're smart people. So NBC comes to my office and they want me to do The Apprentice so badly. And what do I do? I said, "I can't. I'm going to run for President."And I said, "Because of equal time --" Now, you know what equal time. Such a stupid law. Obama can go on television all day long and be President and run for office. But if I have a television show, what happens is everybody running for office would have to be able to do The Apprentice. Equal time.So you'll have a good guy named Rick Santorum. You'll have all these guys.You'll have somebody who used to head up Lehman Brothers -- the governor from Ohio. Headed up Lehman Brothers. Lehman Brothers almost took down the world. He was a managing partner. I think he's a nice man. I don't know. But I know if you're the managing partner of Lehman Brothers, Lehman Brothers almost -- you're not looking too good. You know.But all of these guys, they would have to be given two hours in primetime television on Monday or Sunday night. I don't think so.So they came to my office and they said, "We'd like you to do it. So important."And by the way, they renewed The Apprentice. It was really very interesting because a lot of people said, "Well, how could -- " at the upfront, they announced The Apprentice, which is good because I always want to be loved, you know?Like when I went on dates, if a woman dropped me -- which happened often -- I would always like to say or at least in my own mind that I dropped her. Does that make sense? So what happened -- makes me feel better.So they renewed The Apprentice and I said I'm not going to do it because I'm going to run for President. They didn't believe me.I said, "Why won't you believe me?""Why would you give up a primetime show?"Mark Burnett calls from -- a great guy. Survivor, Apprentice. Great guy. He really is a wonderful guy and a friend of mine. He calls me, he goes, "Donald, they're giving you an extension. Nobody turns down an extension." He said, "I've never heard of it before."I said, "Mark, I'm going to run for President." Nobody believed me.Then I run. And the guys, they're in my office and they said "Run and then by September, we'll do something." Do you believe that? Do you believe that?And I said, well if I don't do well, I would have done that. You know, why not? You know, if I'm not doing well, if it's obvious I'm -- there's a problem. We just went to number one in the polls.So, NBC went nuts. They renewed their show and they don't have their star and everybody else failed with similar shows. And they're angry at me.So again, don't believe the inclusion. They've got Rev. Al Sharpton working for them. OK? He's actually not a bad guy. He's a con man. You'd have to understand it. Rev. Al is a con man. You know, tells people "I'm going to picket you if you don't give." I mean, this guy is a con man.But I've known him for 20 years. He's fine. You've got to understand who you're dealing with.They've got lying Brian Williams. He's OK.They sent me the most beautiful present a couple of months ago. Hundreds of -- I shouldn't say the name because I deal with all of them -- but in this case, Titleist. They sent me hundreds and hundreds of Titleist golf balls. Top of the line. They sent them to me... Card -- "From your friends at NBC". A short time later, they say "He's not inclusive" -- me.I'm more inclusive than anybody. More inclusive than anybody.I then get a call. Univision. Now, Univision controls and by the way, believe me. Univision has a certain power. Now, I didn't know much about Univision. I thought they were very wealthy. They're actually not wealthy at all. They're highly over-levered. They've got like, I think, $10 billion in debt. They have to do an IPO.Now, how stupid is this? They could have waited a couple of weeks, done their IPO, and be done. Instead, they do it early. They couldn't do it fast enough because you know why?In my opinion, it's only my opinion, the Mexican government totally tells Univision -- it's about 80% of their market -- totally tells Univision what to do. Totally.So the Mexican government is not happy with me, to put it mildly.But again, I respect Mexico but their leaders are too smart for our leaders because we have stupid leaders. OK?And I'll tell you, just between you -- just between this little bit of a group -- thank you very much...So the Mexican government does not care about the border nearly as much as they care about the bad trade deals that the United States is making with Mexico. That's really what it's all about. That's really what it's all about.So, I just sued Univision for $500 million.With all of that being said, we have to be strong. We have to take our country back. We have to run the country properly.So, I'm going to bring up a man who's a great man. He's a great, great guy. I saw him the other day on television.Don't worry. It's OK. You can shout. I wonder if the Mexican government sent them over here; I think so. Because I'm telling you, I tell about the bad deals that this country is making. Mexico -- I respect the country. They're taking our jobs. They're taking our manufacturing. They're taking our money. They're taking everything, and they're killing us on the border. And Mexico does not like it.So remember this. Don't worry. We'll take our country back very soon. Very soon.So the other day, you know it's funny, I got a great review for a speech, including my opening speech when I announced I'm running for President.It wasn't until five days later that people started saying, "Oh he said something -"What they don't say is they cut it in the middle of the sentence. They cut it. Because those people -- many of them -- not all, some are great -- but many of them are very dishonest people, meaning the press. Very dishonest. Very dishonest.I'll give you one quick example because I want to bring somebody up for a second who's fantastic. But I'll give you one quick example.I say -- and it's fairly standards because I believe it strongly -- "The American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and stronger and better than ever before." Right? Right?So and I say it usually once during a speech, every once in a while. You know, I don't use teleprompters like the President and I speak from the heart.So I say "The American dream is dead but I'm going to make it" -- it's standard -- "bigger, better, and stronger."OK, so now I go home and my wife says to me, "Darling, that was such a tough statement."What? I turned on the television. "The American dream is dead." Period. Cut. I said, "Oh, what a horrible statement."They are so dishonest. They are so dishonest.You know, what I usually do because if you really love this country, you have a very, very hard convincing people what you're doing is right and that you're really smart.And like a lot of us are really smart. I'm like really smart. Went to the Wharton School of Finance. Even then a long time ago, like the hardest or one of the hardest schools to get into. Did well at the school. Came out, made a fortune. Wrote a book called "The Art of the Deal".Did everybody read "The Art of the Deal"? They say the number one selling business book of all time, which I agree, but I'll say one of them because if I'm slightly off by two copies, they'll say "Oh, Trump exaggerated."... Wrote many bestsellers. Many. I think 12.So I did a lot of things. But "The Art of the Deal" was like the number one selling business book of all time. Great.Then I do The Apprentice, became this tremendous hit. NBC was desperate to have it. Forget it. Now, they can put somebody else that lasts.OK. So ready? And then I hear like "Donald Trump doesn't deserve to be on the same stage with some failed Senators, failed governor" or something. It's sort of amazing, isn't it? Isn't it amazing?And the poll just came out and I'm tied with Jeb Bush. And I said, "Oh that's too bad. How can I be tied with this guy? He's terrible!"He's weak on immigration. You know, the sanctuary cities. Did you know that he had five of them in Florida while he was governor? Can believe this? I didn't know that -- I just -- five of them.He's totally in favor of Common Core, meaning your children in Phoenix and other places are going to be educated by bureaucrats from Washington, who for the most part just want to pick up a check. Give me break. And he's in favor.I don't see him as a factor and I know it's the Bush name, which you know has gotten us into lots of wars. I mean, in all fairness, not the greatest. But Jeb Bush -- I don't get it.So when they said, "Mr. Trump, you're in first place." "Oh that's good." "You're tied with Jeb Bush." I said, "That's not good. How can I be tied with this guy?"But I'll tell you what, I'm going to bring up a man to just a few words. His son was viciously and violently shot by an illegal immigrant. His son was a star athlete, a star student. He applied to Stanford and many great colleges. He would have been -- he could have gone anywhere.And I met Jamiel on television about a week ago. I see this guy. He's mentioning my name. I said, "Oh no, not again" because I figured he's killing me like everybody else. Right?My wife said, "No, I think he's saying some really good things." I said, "I doubt it." You know, they're hitting me left, right.I said, "I doubt it." But I turned it up and he said, "The only man that's sticking up for us is Donald Trump."This guy is great, and we were at the news conference with his mother and his sister yesterday and it was one of the most incredible things.So I'd like to introduce to speak a little bit about his son and how incredible his son was and how his son should be here with us. I mean, his son should be alive and he should be in one of the great colleges and he should be maybe someday in the NFL. But he won't be because an illegal immigrant shot him violently.And this guy is the best guy. He's become my friend. He's been with me for a few days. And just say a few words about your boy.Thank you Jamiel. So, amazing story.By the way, Jamiel's sister is here too and she told me the story that when Jamiel saw the boy, saw the boy laying on the sidewalk dead, this incredible young man with such a future, Jamiel laid down on the sidewalk and started pounding the sidewalk with his hand and badly damaged his hand. Badly, badly. He couldn't understand it. He couldn't believe it.Just an amazing guy. I mean, just an amazing guy. And he wasn't being heard. He wasn't being heard.And the only reason I heard him was because he was talking on a show and he was mentioning how badly they've all been treated.And then you have in San Francisco, a beautiful young woman, Kate, and killed by somebody that just pleaded innocent. First pleaded guilty. Now he has a good lawyer and went into court and pleaded innocent.And they'll be playing around with him for about 15 years in court and probably he'll get off too.It's a horrible thing that's going on with our country.And these are two people that should be alive. And these are people that shouldn't have been in this country. They flow in like water.And I love legal immigration. I love it. I love it. I think it's great. My wife is a legal immigrant. I mean, she went through a whole long process. It's not easy, and we should maybe make it easier and faster, which I think is fine.And we'll have great people come in, and we'll have them come in from all countries -- Mexico -- everybody, every place. These are great people.And you know, one of the things that I've seen -- because this has been an amazing week -- and you know, it's been like an incredible week because I thought I was going to be the jobs person because every poll -- CNN did a poll the other day -- I'm killing everybody on jobs. I'm killing everybody on leadership. You know, it's like funny. You know, I went through these different categories -- the only thing I'm not killing, a lot of people don't like me. I said what difference does it make. This is about competence.Somebody said, "You win on leadership by far. You win on absolute economic, financial -- anything having to do with the economy. You're like lapping the field. Much, much higher than anybody else. But they said, but a lot of people don't know whether or not they like you."I'm actually a nice person. But I actually said if I'm winning in all these categories, why are we even going through primaries?Hillary Clinton is going to be a horrible President. It's horrible. If she even wins her own primary, which I don't know.And by the way, just so you understand, even then press will say "This crowd today blows away anything that Bernie Sanders is having." That I could tell you.But if you think about it, Hillary Clinton was the worst Secretary of State in the history of our country. The worst. The world blew up around her. Our enemies are a disaster and they hate us more. Our friends are all gone. They're all gone.They're all sort of like -- we don't get along with anybody. Everybody is ripping us off, whether it's Russia or China.You know what we've done? For 20 years, I've heard the worst thing that could happen would be if Russia or China start uniting. We united them because we did things that were very onerous, because Obama doesn't like Putin and Putin doesn't respect or like Obama.And all of a sudden, Russia and China now are doing all sorts of things together. So we've driven them together and I've always heard that's a disaster, and it is a disaster. We have driven them.So, Hillary Clinton was the worst. Now, tell me something -- why? Just tell me why would she be a good President? She'd be terrible.Who would you rather have negotiating a deal -- a trade deal -- with anybody? Trump or Hillary?Well, we have to get there first.So, who would you rather have negotiating a really good deal with Mexico, China, Japan? Trump or Jeb Bush?So, when I started, I really thought it would be, you know, a long slog, and I was OK with it. I didn't think that the immigration thing would take on a life like it has.I made some very tough statements about people flowing through because that's one of the things to make our country great again we have to create borders, otherwise we don't have a country.So it's one of many things.And I've been very strong. It's one of many things. We have to make great trade deals and all.So I said strong borders -- one of the things. I said trade deals. Who would do better?I'll tell you what. I know the greatest negotiators in the world. Some are horrible people; horrible human beings. Who cares? Some Wall Street guys, they're brutal, they're miserable. You wouldn't want to go out to dinner -- they're terrible people. I love them.I know the best. I know people that are totally overrated. They're not good like they think and like the press thinks.I know people that you never heard of that are better than all of them.I would take one, put him in charge of Japan. Good luck.You know who's our primary representative right now? Caroline Kennedy. You know how she got the job? 60 Minutes -- she went to the White House. She said "I'd love to have a job. I have nothing to do." They said, "How would you like to be the Ambassador to Japan?" She goes, "Really?"And Abe from Japan, who's a killer, he's great. He's already knocking the hell out of the yen, by the way, which makes it even more impossible for us to compete. And he's wining and dining her, and I watch it all the time -- wining and dining and just doing a number on our country.A friend of mine is a great excavator. That's what he does. He digs foundations. He digs lots of dirt -- Earth. But he's a great excavator. Big. And he always bought Caterpillar.And he calls me up recently and he goes, "I'm a little depressed." "Why?" "I just put in a big order for machinery, for excavating equipment." I said, "Oh, that's good. Did you buy Caterpillar?" "No, I bought Komatsu." I said, "You bought Komatsu?" It's fine. I mean, it's a well-known brand. I said, "You bought Komatsu. Why?" He said, "Because Japan has so devalued the yen" -- brilliant, smart, these are smart people -- "that it made it impossible."... So he ordered Komatsu instead of Caterpillar. This is happening all over the place.Today, in the Wall Street Journal, big story -- Ford going to build tremendous plants all over the place overseas.Ford, by the way, speaking of Mexico. Again, I respect them. I wish we had smart people. Ford is building a $2.5 billion plant. Whoever heard of this? $2.5 billion in Mexico!... So, I'm saying to myself, "That's not good".And in addition to that in Tennessee, a big plant -- $1.2 billion -- was going to be built in Tennessee. Wall Street Journal. And all of a sudden at the last moment they decide to go to Mexico. It's going to be build down in Mexico by a big German car company.And Tennessee is great and the people were good. They all thought they had it, and at the last moment, it goes to Mexico.So I said to myself, "Wow, $2.5 billion. And they're going to make cars and trucks and parts, and they're going to send them into the United States, no tax, no nothing."Now, I told you, I went to the Wharton School of Finance. I was like -- I'm like a really smart person. My uncle, Dr. John Trump, was at MIT -- one of the smartest people. Great engineer. Great, like you know, smart. Right? For many years he was at MIT.And I'm saying to myself, "Where does this help us for Ford to build a plant in Mexico and then sell -- without tax, no tax?"All that means is one thing -- that we don't build a plant in the United States, whether it's in Phoenix or anywhere, because it's being built in Mexico.... So I said to myself, "OK, Jeb Bush is President and he knows this is the wrong thing."Right now, we have Obama. He won't call. He doesn't even call to get our hostages back from Iran. Here we are in the middle of a deal and he doesn't call about that. One sentence -- I'd say, "Before we start, we've got to get those people back. Used to be three, now it's four. Get those people back." They'd be back the next hour.We need the right messenger. The Iran deal is a disaster. The Iran deal is a disaster. They are begging. Our chief negotiator at 73 is in a bicycle race. He falls and breaks his leg. This is the mentality we have.So I said, "What would Jeb Bush do?"I'm more disappointed in the Republicans in many ways. They talk and talk and talk.So, Jeb Bush, let's say he's President -- ay, ay, ay -- so let's say Jeb Bush is President. He knows it's no good to have a $2.5 billion plant built right near our country. How does it help us, right?So here's what happens. He knows it's no good. He'll have a little pressure. Don't let the plant be built. And he might even say, "Don't let the plant be built." Might even call the head of Ford. "The plant's not going to be built."And then the next day, he'll be called by special interests that supported him, his lobbyists who push him around like a piece of candy, or his donors who have stock in Ford. And they'll say, "You can't do that. I helped you. You can't hurt them. You just can't do it."He folds in about two seconds.So let me say Trump is President. Let me say Trump. So I don't need anybody's money. Actually, people are setting up PACs all over the place. I don't care. If they want to give it to me, I'll take it. OK?But I don't need money. I don't want money. So I'm doing my own. You'll see that on Thursday or whatever the hell day I file. You'll see I did really well. Much better than anyone ever thought. Just the opposite.So here's the story. So Trump is President. So I get a call from the head of Ford and I'll say, "You got to build in the United States. Sorry." He'll say, "But Mr. President, really -- we don't want -- " I'll say, "Here's the story. Number one, congratulations on your new plant in Mexico. And number two, we're going to charge you 35% for every car, truck, and part you send over."And here's what would happen -- here's what would happen. Now, this isn't like 99% sure. This is 100%. In fact, you know the negotiators -- the killers that I told you about -- these bad people? I wouldn't even bother calling them because this is too easy. I can just do this like, you know, with a couple of phones.So here's what would happen with Trump. I will get some calls. He will say "Mr. President, this is terrible. Please! Please!""Sorry, can't do anything. Sorry, I don't care. I want you to build here. I want jobs in the United States."So, they would go and they'd call up the lobbyists... Hey, I hire lobbyists. I have lobbyists all over the place. They're great. I want something -- go do this. I know the system better than anybody.I'm a donor. Somebody said, "Oh, you gave to the Democrats." Of course, I give to them. I give to everybody. I want to get everything done. Everybody loves me. Everybody loves -- I give to everybody.Now, in a lot of ways, that's very bad because you know what? That's bad for the country. You know it's bad. But that's the way it works.But I give to everybody; they all love me. They don't love me so much anymore by the way, I have to tell you.But here's what happens. He'll call. I'd say he folds sometimes prior to 5 p.m. in the evening. But he could be tough and he may last 'till 12 p.m. the following day.And he'll say "Please" and five guys will call me that are friends of mine and, you know, who I couldn't care less. I'd say, "No, you don't understand. I want that plant built in the United States. I want jobs in the United States."Now, this is just one of many deals. And here's what happens. I would probably get a call the first day but maybe the second day because they're tough negotiators. And he'll say, "Mr. President, would you reconsider?" I'd say "No." He'll say, "Mr. President, we've decided to build the plant in Phoenix." OK?It's so simple. It's so simple. We have totally incompetent people. Now, some people say they're bad people. I don't think they're that smart to be bad people.Honestly, I mean, a lot of people get angry when I say I don't think they're bad; I think they're stupid; I think they're incompetent.So we've got to take our country back.We've got to get rid of Obamacare. We've got to repeal it and replace it with something good.And we have to take care -- and I know this doesn't sound very conservative -- we've got to take care of everybody, not just the people up here. We've got to take care of everybody. OK? Get used to it, conservatives. I love you, conservatives. Get used to it. Let's take care of everybody, please?And by the way, Obamacare doesn't. And if you look at the premiums, the premiums are going through the roof. The deductibles -- frankly, you have to get hit with a Komatsu tractor in order to use them, they're so high.We can do it. You get rid of state lines. You put it out. You'll have great care for much less money. The country will spend much less, and we will take care of those people that can't do it. We have to, we have to, we have to!We have to build up our military. I'm in the real estate business, as many of you have heard. You'll see that in a couple of days, by the way. I'm in the real estate business and all the time I get listings of bases for sale -- a naval, an army base, a marine. There are all these bases. I said "How many bases are there?" All the time I'm getting these listings for bases.I said, "What are we doing?" We are hated throughout the world. China is building in the South China Sea islands. We can't do that because we would not be able to get an environmental impact statement. Can you believe? We'd go through 25 years of being sued by the environmentalist.And by the way, I'd hate to say this. I've been given many, many environmental awards. I get a lot of environmental awards. But we have to take back the heart of our country.We have to do something special. We have to bring back -- and let me tell you, in bringing back our military, in bringing back our military, we have to do something else. We have to take care of our veterans because our veterans are treated like their third-class citizens and they are the greatest.Now, if you remember a few days ago, Bush was asked the simplest question "Was Iraq a good thing or a bad thing?" He couldn't give an answer. Took him five days before he said it was bad.Now, think of this. Think of this. Five days. How can you have a guy like that negotiating for you? Five days it took him and finally he said it was bad. OK? He could have done it in the first three seconds. But it took him five days.And if you think about it, we spent $2 trillion, lost thousands of lives -- thousands. We have wounded warriors who I love all over the place. All over. Amazing, I mean, amazing people. So we have wounded warriors all over. We got nothing.And today, Iraq is meeting with Iran to do some kind of merger.So in 2004, in Reuters -- anyone from Reuters back there? I'm sure they are. There's an article in July of 2004: "Trump said don't invade Iraq".Now, I am more for the military and I am the most militaristic person in this room. I would have a military that's so strong that we would never have to use it because people would say "No way we're messing with them. No way we're messing with them."And I'd get along with Putin and I'd get along with China.You know, China -- largest bank in the world is in China. They're my tenant. I just renewed their lease. Who speaks worse about China than me? No, I do it out of respect. But China, they just renewed their lease. "We would never move to a build other than your building." They love it. But it's called respect. It's called respect. They respect smart things, smart people, smart deals. They have no respect for our country.So with Bush, if you people go with Bush, you're going to lose.I'll tell you one other thing and we're going to wrap it up now, but I'll tell you something. And this will be surprising to a lot of people.Thousands and thousands of people work for me. Tens of thousands. I've give tens of thousands -- I've taken care of education, for families. I've taken care of health care at the highest level. I didn't even have to worry about Obamacare because my people do better. My people got lucky but I got lucky too -- they're great people.But ISIS will be in such trouble. Oh. ISIS. ISIS, believe me, they will be in such trouble.You know the problem -- have to say this. So we're fighting wars and we're backing all these stupid people that -- honestly, I don't say they're stupid. They don't care. Like the Iraqis. They don't -- they have no love for the country.The leadership -- there is no leadership but let's assume there is -- they're all thieves. They're all terrible people. 100% corrupt.So we send to one of our so-called allies 2,300 Humvees. Now, think of it. Normally, you'd send like three. How many are here? We send three.They're armor-plated Humvees. You can imagine what they cost. They don't even report because it's probably so high that it's another scandal like the $500 billion website for Obamacare, which never worked and still doesn't work.So we send 2,300 Humvees. One bullet is fired in the air, and the people we gave the Humvees to flee and the enemy takes them over. And they're better than the ones that our boys and women have. Because they were the best, they're gone in one day.Remember Yemen, how we had the victory? The big victory? It turned out to be a false victory because a few months later it was gone.If you think that those people -- if you think that they want Yemen, take a look at a map with that long beautiful border along Saudi Arabia. They want the oil.Do you remember what I said -- and I get a lot of credit for this. They said, "He's the one guy" -- and I'm a very militaristic guy -- "but he's the one guy that said don't do Iraq because you'll destabilize it and then Iran will take over and then somebody else worse than than Saddam Hussein will take over the rest.ISIS -- hey, Saddam Hussein was never as bad as these people. These people are brutal. They're chopping off everybody's heads, especially if you happen to be Christian. They chop off your head. They dunk people with a cage. Did you see that? They dunk them and drown them.These people make Saddam Hussein look like a choir boy.OK? And I said this in 2004.OK, now Bush goes in and he makes a mistake. And then Obama -- frankly, we might as well have stayed there -- but he made a mistake too.And I said, "Keep the oil." Do you remember that? And everyone said, "You can't keep the oil. This is a sovereign country. You can't keep the oil."I said, "Keep the oil. We're in there now. You blew it. You shouldn't have gone in."And every other candidate is fleeing. They're all trying to say, "Well, they didn't know. There was intelligence that said this."They all said "Do it." I'm the only one that said no.I'm the only one that said "No." "Keep the oil," I said. I've been saying this for two, three years. "Don't leave. Keep the oil. Because if you don't get it, Iran will get it or somebody else is going to get it."... Iran is taking it and ISIS has it. And ISIS now is building a hotel in Iraq. They're competing with me. Can you believe it? They're renovating this building; they're building a hotel. They're wealthy. They have the oil.And I said, "Keep it." And great criticism. "Trump says keep the oil. Well, that's a sovereign country. Isn't it a horrible thing to say?"These are stupid people we have leading us.So ISIS, believe me, I would take them out so fast, it would be -- have to do it, have to do it.See, I think they overplayed their hand. I actually think they made a big mistake.When they started, like you take James Foley. So great. Such a great guy. I got to know his parents... I met the parents; they're very interesting...They did the beheading and then they've done other -- I said, "You know, they're making a big mistake, ISIS, because if they wouldn't have done and if they wouldn't keep doing, we wouldn't have cared. We could have been gone. But you can't, not when you see what they're doing, you can't."Had they not done those things, the level of violence -- we're like living in Medieval times. You know, when you hear of Medieval time, you always think we were all civilized. It's a jungle. It's horrible out there.But when they started doing the beheadings, they really -- I think they made a mistake but not with Obama because he's weak and he's ineffective and he's not respected. Not respected.So here's the problem. Here's the kind of deals we make:James Foley is dead. Great guy. Amazing guy. Amazing parents.We have Sergeant Bergdahl, a traitor.So we negotiate for Sergeant Bergdahl, a no-good traitor. Six people were killed trying to find him. Six young in this case men went out to try to get him; six of them never came back. Six people died and we have Sergeant Bergdahl.And here's our deal. This is just like the stupid deal that we're making with Iran on nuclear. This is just like everything else we do -- the deals we make with China, the deals we make with Mexico. We don't know what we're doing.So we get Bergdahl, a no-good traitor. Frankly, I'd re-negotiate deals every once in a while. Not too often but I'd send him back, and if they don't want him, send him back anyways. I want to re-negotiate that.They get five killers that are right now back on the battlefield, trying to kill everybody, including the people in this room. And these were the five people that they most wanted.So I call Obama the five-for-one President. Who would make that deal? Now, I don't think it's because he's a bad person... Who would make a deal like this?But these are the same deals that we make with all of these countries.When I look at Japan, I just go over from Los Angeles. We had a tremendous crowd there too. We had a tremendous crowd. And we had a big one in Las Vegas this morning.But when I look at these massive boats, I've never seen boats like this -- the biggest boats with cars coming from Japan. And then we can't sell corn. We can't sell beef. It's peanuts. We can't sell beef.So we do about 20% to their 100%.So I said it in an idea on the way over. I said, "Tell Japan that's OK. Everything's fine. We're going to cut your orders down to 20%. Let it match." Let it match. Simple deal. Simple deal.And I had another idea that's also very simple. When Mexico -- and you remember when Fidel Castro took over, the opened his prisons and he sent everybody over to the United States and we accepted them and it was hell. We didn't send them back. We accepted them.In a much, much, much more sophisticated way, Mexico is doing that to us because why would they want to have a prisoner like these two horrible people that hurt so badly -- destroyed -- but hurt so badly the Shaw family and Kate's family. Why would they want to have them in jail for 40 years, paying for it?So I had an idea... The one with Kate came over five times. In my opinion, he was pushed out by Mexico. They don't want him. They don't want to take care of him. Why would they want to take care of him?And believe me, Univision, which I'm suing by the way for $500 million because they broke the contract, but Univision is doing the work of the Mexican government.And I don't blame them actually. I respect Mexico. I don't blame the Mexican government. I just wish our people were smart.Like they're really smart doing that. They're sending them to us and we're either putting them in jails or letting them go free, which is even worse.But we have to do something. So, I have an idea. I said every time an illegal comes to this country through the border because Mexico was pushing them over, remember that. And by the way, unbelievable people are coming. A lot of people that are illegal are great people.Just let's get it straight -- they don't want to give it straight because the press are liars. They're terrible people. They're terrible people. Terrible. Not all of them but many of them.So here's an idea. So, Mexico is sending them. And by the way, they're coming from all over the world including the Middle East. Why not? Come on in. We're stupid. We'll take care of you. We'll pay. Get sick, we'll take care of your hospitalization. What kind of a plan do you want?So I had an idea. I think it's good. Every time Mexico really intelligently sends people over, we charge Mexico $100,000 for every person they send over.Now, they make so much money that that's peanuts. It's not a lot. Could have made it much higher but I'm nice. I'm in a good mood today.We charge Mexico $100,000 for every person. You'll see that it'll start to stop because that starts to add up. It starts to add up.We have to secure our borders. We have to do something to take back our country.I mean, don't kid yourself folks, what took place today, even by the dishonest press, what took place today is being seen all over the world. Look at all those cameras back there. This is being seen all over the world. People know.You know, it's a term I haven't heard for years but I was thinking about it... It's a term that I haven't heard for years but I really think it applies now more than maybe ever before and that's the term "the silent majority". Have you all heard that?You don't hear it. When people start cutting up their credit cards at Macy's and won't go to Macy's anymore, when all of these things -- and that's a big story but nobody wants to write it. That's fine. I don't care about me.But when you see the kind of power that the silent majority has and the silent majority is a problem. They want to go out. They want to lead a good life. They want to work hard. They want to have their family. They don't want to be involved in coming here and waiting on a line for hours and hours and coming in and listening to Trump.But the silent majority is back, and we're going to take the country back. And we are going to make America great again!Thank you. Thank you. Thank you!Started scrambling, and I thought probably I'd have to go outside, and if it's a windy day, my hair will be blow. But it is my hair. It is my hair.You can always tell a dishonest reporter -- you know, the other day, I had actually, a great story. But they said, but he wears the worst hairpiece I've ever seen. I said, I can't even give anybody that story. But that wasn't true.So I thought my hair would be blowing all over the place, because we have about 10,000 people. And it's an amazing thing that's happening. It's an amazing thing that's happening all over the country. And for a while, as you know, they were saying, Trump won't run. There's no way he's beginning to run. Why would he run? He's not beginning to run. Some people said, why would I run? Because I have a nice life. I have a great company. It's just things are sort of easy. And other people said oh, he'll never want to show his financials. Or he'll never want to do this or that. He'll never run.So then I announced I'm running. Then I wasn't going to file my FEC original filing because when you do that, you're making a very big step, and I filed it. And then they had -- oh, but he'll never put in his financials. Because maybe he's not as rich as people think. Not that it matters, but I'm much richer and you'll see that next week. No, you'll see. I mean, you know, it's like crazy. So -- it is true. You've heard that, right? He'll never file. These guys, they sit up there. Why, he will never file because he doesn't want to show that he's not as rich. And I said to myself, I want to show that I'm much, much richer than people say.You remember the old days with Castro when he emptied his jails and sent them all to the United States? Well, Mexico does similar things in a highly sophisticated and much more sophisticated manner. And we have people in the country, you look at Kate, you look at -- I have a man who's a friend of mine, Jamel Shaw. He's with me. He came today. In fact-Jamel, where are you, Jamel? Is he around here someplace? One of the finest people. Where is Jamel? Will you come up here for a second?Jamel Shaw, do you know who this is? He was on one of the big shows on FOX and CNN the other day. I never met Jamel. And he was talking about Trump. And I said oh no, not more. How much can you take? And he was talking me. And then I turned on the sound, and he said, there's nobody that's helped us. We've been forgotten. The parents of children that have been killed by illegal immigrants. His son was killed by an illegal immigrant. And I said, what he is doing now is so important in honor of his son, just say hello. And just give just a brief description, Jamel. Because it's so, so important. He was with me last night, along with other parents of other children that were likewise killed.OK, who are the questions? Where are they? Do you have a mic? Good. Go ahead.I was waiting for this.Good.Good.Ask a question, please.Did the government of Mexico ask you to come up here and make this today?OK. Go ahead ask your question.Come on. You've got a lot of people waiting.No, I'd build a wall -- no, I would build a wall between our country and Mexico because people come from all over the world -- let me just tell you. Sir, do you want to hear the answer? And all of the people -- because I encourage legal citizenship. I encourage it and I would encourage it and I would encourage Hispanics and I would encourage people from all over.But what I don't encourage is people coming into our country illegally and I don't encourage where a government forces some people in that the government doesn't want. And these people reap havoc on our population.Thank you very much for your question. I appreciate it. Next question, please.Wounded warriors all over the place who I love. These are great people, not being properly taken care of, by the way. And we have nothing. And Iraq. And there is no Iraq. Let's face it. Iraq is just a name. But Iraq is now meeting with Iran about a takeover. And ISIS is building hotels in Iraq. You believe it? They're building a hotel. Because they have so much money. Because they've taken over so much oil. We're so stupid. We are led by stupid people. And I'm very proud of the fact that I was opposed -- and I'm a very military-oriented person.But I'm very proud of the fact that article came up, somebody wrote a beautiful story about it, because all these Republican guys -- and Hillary voted for it, who would be one hell of a bad president, by the way. She was the worst Secretary of State in the history of the country. The worst.And now she's going to be president. And Bush is so bad. Can you imagine Bush negotiating with China? Who would you rather have, Trump negotiating with China or Bush negotiating with China? I tell you, I'll give you the answer to that one. That's an easy --.So anyway, so we have to have a very strong military, we have to protect our people, and we have to have it so we don't even use it, because I don't want to use it, but we have to have it. Because if we have it, it won't have to be used. OK, let's go.You can't have Mr. Shaw's son, if that man wasn't here, he was illegal, Mr. Shaw would have his son going to Stanford or going to one of the great colleges right now playing football and learning and doing a great job after that. Kate would be alive right now in Sn Francisco. So you know.And, you know, the whole thing with executive order, by the way, it's not supposed to be the way it's done. You're supposed to get Congress to do and this and negotiate back and forth. Tip O'Neill, Ronald Reagan. You don't just say, hey, I can't -- he can't even get his own party to agree with him so he just goes around now and signs executive orders which will be solved in about five years in the slow court system. So I respect your attorney general very much so. Very much so.Yes, ma 'am.Are you ready? I will win the Hispanic vote because I am going to create jobs and I will create a better country.Wait, wait, wait. Mitt Romney let us all down. Mitt Romney ran a horrible campaign. He choked because in the four weeks before, he wasn't there. I don't know what happened to him. In all fairness to Obama, he was doing Jay Leno, David letterman. Mitt Romney failed and he failed horribly.The fact is that, and nobody talks about this, he did not energize the base. Many, many conservative Republicans stayed home. Is that correct, Jeff? They stayed home. They didn't want to vote for him. If they get out and vote, you're going to win. Jeb Bush is not going to get those people to vote. That I can tell you. OK.Two more questions. Because I'm going to be in Las Vegas, I'm going to see the same people.Yes, sir. I know I'm going to like your question.The world trade center. He said 19 people blew up the world trade center. They were all illegal aliens.Oh, that's true. I say that. I say it all. There are far more. Mexico is one country, they are coming from all over the world. You have people coming from the Middle East that are going right through Mexico and pass the border.The people are coming, I always say that. This isn't just Mexico. People are coming from all over the world and they are coming illegally into our country and they are coming from the Middle East, and we better be damn careful.OK. How about one more, because I'm going to see you in a few minutes in Phoenix. Yes, sir.Seems like such a mundane question right now. I love the guy. He's a real estate guy.Owning the home was the American dream. It became the American nightmare. But we will make it back honestly back to the American dream. Owning a home is so important. It's really a good question. And it's a very complicated question, but it's a great question. Thank you. Yes.I will get along with China, too.I have the largest bank in the world as a tenant in one of my buildings. You know that bank industrial bank, right?Good bank, right?Big? They pay me rent. They love me. I love China. The problem is that Chinese leaders are much smarter than Obama and his group of clowns.We're going to do very well with the Hispanic vote, we're going to do great with the women vote, if you look at -- in Nevada they did the poll and I'm leading in the Hispanic vote because I create jobs and I'm going to -- I will be creating tremendous numbers of jobs. So I think we're going to do great.And then the women's health issues, I'm for that. I cherish women. I hope that I will be the Republican nominee because that's the best way to win. I'm going to keep the door open on the other. If I'm be treated fairly and the word is fairly it doesn't mean well, it means fairly. If I'm not treated fairly, we'll see what happens.And then you have the killing of Kate in San Francisco -- beautiful Kate. And it's like, it just happens. This guy came in five times and the fifth time was a disaster for a family -- a great family, a family that I've gotten to know a little bit and a family that I've spoken to on numerous occasions, and a family that I don't think the president has yet called which is incredible. He hasn't called. Think of it. He hasn't called. And the media look at all those people back there. Scavengers, they're like scavengers, they're like scavengers. So many. Hello, now I see a couple that I really like there are some that I really like.Melania, she'll make a very beautiful first lady I can tell you. And a great first lady, she's got a great heart, a great heart. She who cares more about those women issues that Bush doesn't care about. She cares more about that between Melania and Ivanka believe me.So I said let's say that Jeb Bush is president. Now he's not a stupid person. I don't -- I agree with you but, you know, he was so nice to me at the debate and by the way, they said I won the debate? Is that nice? Is that nice? Right?The polls came out and said I -- and boy, did I have nasty questions. I stood up there and said I don't believe this -- some of these questions.Jeb and Hillary on the same day, they said Donald Trump has too strong a tone -- too strong. We have heads being chopped off because they're Christian in the Middle East. We have borders where people are being killed all up. The world is cracking up and they're worried about my tone?I should be toned down, down the last two weeks because I've hired many of the lobbyists. That's true. I hire lobbyists, they're great. They're terrific people. They can do whatever the hell you want them to do, OK, it's true.So I've had a lot of them then call me there is we want to contribute it's amazing when you go to number one how this guys they want to give you money, you know, if you're number 12, I guarantee you, Rick Perry is not getting a lot of calls from lobbyists and neither is Lindsey Graham.The two guys that hit me the hardest were Perry, right? Perry and Graham hit me harder than anybody else.Now, it is Rand Paul. Do you believe it? He's the new one. I said, "Rand, I've had you up to here. I've had you."Beautiful. So, so nice.So nice. So they say we set a record tonight.Now, I am going to make the people outside angry, but they love me and I love them. We have over 1,000 people outside. We have hundreds in the second auditorium, but you people got the good real estate, right? You got the good real estate.So this has been an amazing period of time. I know it is very early, but the polls have been through the roof, every one of them.Because -- and I don't know if it's for me or if it's for the message or a combination of both but, you know, I brought back a term that hasn't been used in a long time. It's called the silent majority. There's a tremendous silent majority...... that politicians have taken advantage of. I mean they have taken advantage of the people of this country long enough. They are largely incompetent except when it comes to getting reelected. That is what they do. And look, who knows them better than me? I have contributed to everybody. And who knows them better than me? They are great at one thing, don't make any make waves, get reelected, serve it out, then get reelected again. That's it all the time. I have been watching it for so many years, and I personally am sick and tired of it.So backstage, I met some of the vets, the greatest people we have in this country.And they have been mistreated. They have been treated like third-class citizens. And it's going to stop. It's going to stop.You look at the senators and the congressman. They ride around. They're like kings. They think, "Great. Oh, isn't it great?" They come. They make speeches. Nothing ever happens. So two weeks ago on Wednesday, they had the longest waits in reception rooms and reception areas in the history of the veterans administration, people waiting three days, four days, five days to see a doctor -- to see a doctor. So we are going to straighten that. That's called management. It's called management. That is all it is.The military is going to be so strong in this country.That nobody is going to mess around with the United States, that I can tell you -- that I can tell you. Nobody.You know, over the last few weeks, Jeb Bush...... in favor of common core, weak on immigration, not good on military, can you believe he thought the Iraq war was a good thing? I mean, yeah, you could make a mistake. I was against it for a long time. I'm the most militaristic person in this room but you have to know when to use it. You have to know when to use it. Think about it.We spent $2 trillion in Iraq. China is taking a lot of the oil, just so you understand. ISIS may have it and Iran may have it, but China is taking out a lot of the oil. Can you imagine? We spent -- we never do anything right with China. We spent $2 trillion. Thousands of lives of great people, mostly young, beautiful people, wounded warriors, who I love all over the place, not treated properly by the way.And we have nothing. And Iran is taking over Iraq. And the parts that they want to give up, they're giving oil to ISIS. So ISIS has the oil. And you remember when I said you shouldn't go in. And in fact, just check it, Reuters wrote an article, big article, in 2004 that, "Trump, don't go in because you're going to ruin the balance."Iran and Iraq, they were the same. They were twins. They have wars for years -- wars, boom. One goes this way, one goes that way. One -- and I said if you take out one, the other one is going to take over. Well, we took out one and look at the mess we have. We destabilized the Middle East and it is a mess.And Jeb Bush couldn't -- he didn't know the difference. He couldn't answer a question, was Iraq a good thing or a bad thing? It's all right to say they made a mistake. Finally, after going to his pollster -- who has a fortune too, by the way -- after five days, he said it was a bad thing. OK. So let's accept that that's OK.Then the other day I'm watching -- yesterday, and he said, "Well, we got Saddam Hussein out, didn't we?" I mean I'm not a fan of Saddam Hussein, but he ran the place, and he had no weapons of mass destruction. And now instead of Saddam Hussein, we have far more brutal. We have ISIS and we will have Iran because they are already making deals. Two weeks I read where the leaders of Iraq are visiting the leaders of Iran. What do we get out of this? What do we get? We have stupid leadership. Now, if you remember -- so I didn't want to in I was right.I didn't to want to go in but I was right, but then we were in. And it was bad and there were still were bombings up. But it was bad, but we're in. At some point we have to go out, right? I mean we can't stay there forever. We have to rebuild this country. We have to rebuild our country. You know, we have to.Our bridges are falling apart. Our roads are a mess. Our schools, our highways, everything, it's a mess. Our -- and who is better at infrastructure than Trump. OK. OK.So, look. At some point we have to get out. They talked about the surge -- the surge. Remember Bush's brother, he said, "The war is over. We've taken over." You know, like there were two days later, it was a disaster. Now, Obama said that with Yemen. He announced Yemen was a total victory. And then like three months later, it was like a disaster. And we don't have Yemen. We don't have anything.We send over to our allies, if you call them that, they don't even know what they are. There is no word for them, OK? Iraq isn't even a country. Iraq is a bunch of corrupt people that sort of string something together. It is not a country. But we send over to our allies 2,500 Humvees. So when I heard 2,500 I thought it was a typo in the "New York Times". I said, "They mean 25. They mean 2.5. They mean 250, maybe." That's a lot.So these are 2500 Humvees, armor plated all over. So when the bombs go off you don't lose your legs and you don't lose your life and you don't lose your arms, really great vehicles. One shot is fired and these guys run away and the enemy picks up 2,500. Think of it. Think of it.So we need the right thinking. And I said -- some people are saying, "What a terrible statement he made, " because when we had to leave -- we had to leave -- you know, you can talk about surging but at some point we have to leave. We can't stay there forever. And if we'd loosen up these rules, we have so much oil under our own feet. We don't need them for those things because of new technologies -- new technology.So, we're going to leave. And I say, "Leave but take the oil." Do you remember that? Did anyone ever hear that -- me say that? I'm saying it all the time. I've been saying it for years. Take the oil. And I watch these guys on television, political people, many of them are with the administration and I think they mean well, but they don't have a clue. They say, "Isn't that silly? Mr. Trump says take the oil. Isn't it?" Well, you know where is the oil now? Iran and ISIS. Everybody has it but us. We're the only ones who left the oil.It's is hard to believe. We need General Douglas MacArthur who I thought he was great. You know, to this date, the highest academic record -- I'm big into school and academics. I love it. I went to the greatest school. You had to be really smart to get into that school, The Wharton School of Finance. But you have to be really smart. And that was before I was Trump, you know. That was before I was Trump. But you have to be really smart. That's like the hardest one but, you know, even then, by the way.But General Douglas MacArthur to this day was the greatest student in the history of West Point plus he had the look, he had the whole deal. He was a general. I don't see it now so much. I don't want to knock the generals, but I see some of these guys come on. Can we defeat is? I don't think so.You know, I don't want to use names but, you know, he is sort of retiring. Then you have General George Patton.So do you think General Patton -- when President Obama -- remember not so long ago he said we're going to attack a certain city. And he said, in two weeks we're going to attack this city and we're going to attack from the front.And we'll use drones and we're going to use this with -- in the meantime, the enemy is saying, "Ha. Ding ding." And it was brutal. It turned out to be a brutal situation. I said, you know, that's great. That is camouflage. What a smart thing he is doing because he's probably going to do the opposite. Well, in two weeks we attacked. We attacked from the -- it was the craziest thing I've ever seen. It was a terrible view, something that should have taken 24 hours was like months. And I said I wonder what General MacArthur and General Patton -- just to name two of the great ones -- are doing now in their graves? You know what they're doing? Spinning. They're spinning. They're saying, "I don't believe it. I don't believe it."So we have such a great country, but we've gone down so far. China yesterday -- I'm big for the world of financial -- and I tell you what, CNN did a poll and I was through the roof on the economy. I was like really high. I had to be exactly accurate because, otherwise, they will have front page joy that Donald Trump gave false. But I mean I was many times number two. I went through the roof in leadership. That's a pretty important subject, right -- leadership. I killed everybody on leadership, right?I did great on the military. And I actually think the military would be just as good as the economic for me personally. I think I'd be so good on those. Oh, would I be tough? Oh, these poor people. I would be creating things that nobody would be playing with us. Nobody. Nobody.And I don't necessarily mean soldiers. I mean -- we love our soldiers, but I mean, you know, we have weaponry that's obsolete. We have nuclear weapons. Can you believe, 60 minutes does a show and the show -- the whole show was how bad a condition our nuclear weapons are in. Did anybody see that show? I would say, can you write? I said even if it's true, can you believe we're putting this for the world to see, for Putin to see? By the way, two weeks after that show, Putin said, "They better not mess with us. We have nuclear weapons. Can you imagine Putin said it from Russia?And the reason they did that is the President wanted the press to see how weak our nuclear capabilities. Remember the telephones? They don't work. They were 40 years old and they have wires and the wires were rotting. And in order to work the telephones where our silos are and the silos were all rusty and rotting and the kids said -- nice kids -- they said, "We don't know if it works." Oh, great.And they're screaming over the phone because the wires are so damaged and so old and this is our nuclear. Now, assuming that's true, which it is, who the hell would show that to the enemy? And the reason he gave is because he wants some funding to get them fixed up. Oh, that's great.So we have to get smart people, tough people, cunning people. China, you probably read -- some of you aren't into this, but basically yesterday they did the largest devaluation in the history of China. Now, they think the history, but they say only the last two decades. Oh, OK. Now, I feel much better. Some people said in history, but they actually brought it down to two decades, in other words, 20 years. OK. OK. What that means is you hear the sucking sound. You know what the sucking sound is?That means jobs. That means money. That means all of this coming out. They did a number on us. And I said when they did the last one, which wasn't long ago, like six, seven months ago, but it was a much more modest devaluation, I said I can't believe Obama is allowing this to happen. And we have all the cards. I just told the press it's the greatest theft in the history of the United States what China has done to us. We have rebuilt China. Our money has rebuilt China.You go over to China there bridges are being built all over the place. I mean bridges that make the George Washington Bridge and other bridges look small. And I am not using the George Washington Bridge for political purposes, OK? Please.Because I would do that. But it makes like the George -- like small time. They're building massive bridges, massive highways, massive roads. I went over -- I was in Dubai. Great place. They have an airport, it's like magic. It's the most incredible thing you have ever seen. You go to Qatar. You go to places in China, many cities in China. You go to all these places. And then we go home and we land at LaGuardia.Or we land at Kennedy where they have hangers that are falling down. They're rotting and rusting. And there are potholes in the runways. No, it is such a shock. You know, we don't realize it. You know, we go to Kennedy. We go to Florida. We go whatever. And we don't -- you know, after a while you get used to things. You know what I mean? Like when your house gets dirty or when it needs a paint job you'll say it looks OK, right?But these airlines are so bad -- thank you -- these airlines, it's so sad. It's so sad. Then you look at the age of our infrastructure. You look at all of the different things, even the airlines, the airplanes. I was asked by -- because they were actually a tenant of mine, Qatar, which they call Qatar. I've always said Qatar. They asked me why I call it Qatar. But I said people -- in this country they like Qatar better, right? I like Qatar. I wouldn't say Qatar, but I like Qatar. I mean they're very nice people. And they asked me to go to a dinner. And I said, "I can't." And they said, "We'll pay you a lot of money." As rich as I am, I mean it was a lot of money to have a dinner like -- you know, like a tremendous amount of money. So I said, "I'll go."That's true. No. You have to understand you can be really rich, but if you're going to get hundreds of thousands of dollars to have a dinner two blocks from your house and you don't do it, it's time to retire. Do we agree? Do we agree?So anyway -- so I went and it was so amazing. And I said to the head man of the airline, what is the average age of your planes? And he said like, "Oh, about a year and a half -- a year and a half." And then they show charts with the average age of like some of our airlines, you know, 32 years, 15 years, 28 years, and you see it. And then I said, how do you finance your planes? And he looked at me like, finance? We don't finance. We pay cash.Saudi Arabia -- and it was very impressed. I mean I was impressed. It wasn't a question. And then when I went to Qatar, I went into an airline terminal that was the most beautiful terminal I have ever seen ever, most magnificent. They had lounges. They had spas. They had spas. Before you get on the plane, you can get a massage. I'm not into that though. I don't like people touching me. It's true. It's true.It's true actually. But they have these magnificent spas, everything. And I said to the head man who was taking me for a tour, I said, "This is the most beautiful airline terminal I've ever seen." It was massive. He goes, "No. No. No, Donald. This is temporary. Our new one is being built over there." And he pointed and there must have been 40 cranes, the longest, most beautiful thing you've ever seen. This was a tear down. And I said, "Oh, we're doing it wrong."Saudi Arabia -- and I have great relationships with Saudi Arabia, as I do with Mexico, as I do with everybody. You know, they all buy apartments from me. They pay millions and millions of dollars. Am I supposed to dislike them? I love them. China, I sell apartments for $50 million, $30 million, $25 million, $18 million, some of the cheap ones like $10 million. OK. Those are the cheap ones. I don't even bother to sign those contracts because -- but I get it from Saudi Arabia. I get it from Japan. I get it from everybody. I love these people.The problem is Mexico -- I love the Mexican people. They have tremendous spirit -- tremendous spirit. You know, when I opened -- as Rush Limbaugh said, who is a great guy, "Trump has taken more incoming that any human being I've ever seen." And it was only because the press totally changed my statement. They used half a sentence. They use a statement from here. It turned out I was right because I was talking about illegal immigration and it turned out that I was right with all of the problems that are happening.But when you look at Saudi Arabia, when you look at Mexico -- by the way, Mexico is becoming the new China. They are taking over. Did you know that Nabisco -- Nabisco -- did you see it yesterday? Nabisco is closing a factory in Chicago and they're moving to Mexico this big factory and taking many jobs, particularly about 1,200 jobs are going to be lost in Chicago.No more Oreos. They make Oreos out there, right? No more Oreos. I don't like Oreos anymore. But no, they announced that they're doing other things and they're moving to Mexico and it's great. I mean, look, Mexico, if you can get away with it, it's great. I have such respect for the leaders of Mexico and their negotiators. So I don't dislike them. The biggest bank in the world is a bank and tenant in my building -- one of my buildings. It's an incredible bank. It's the largest bank. Citibank is like a tiny subsidiary compared to this one in size. And I never have to worry about the rent, right?So one of our great deal makers, you probably heard of him, Carl Icahn, right? Good, smart guy, right? So I had dinner with him the other night. I said, "Carl, if I do this -- and I'm really doing well. I mean, you know, hey, are we leading in every poll -- every single poll.And it's the talk of politics. I mean it's really become the talk of politics. It's like a great honor. But we got to get there. You know, I don't want to talk about it. I want to get there. I was called by one of the biggest journalists in the world the other day.He said, "Mr. Trump, could I ask you a question?" "What?" "How does it feel? How does what feel?" I said, "How does what feel?" He said, "You have done something that nobody else has ever done. You've taken over television. You've taken over the airwaves. It's the summer of Trump " You know they're calling it the Summer of Trump.No. OK. And I said -- and this is a highly respected guy, an amazing guy. And I said I haven't done anything because I haven't won. It starts with one in the primaries than going on and winning. I mean if this all happens and I don't win -- it starts with winning the primers, getting the nomination and then going on and winning. I consider it a total waste of time. He said you are wrong. You have done a great thing. Trust me. I won't be happy, OK? I won't be happy.But we're all doing well. Think of this. So if you look at Saudi Arabia, they make a billion dollars a day -- a billion dollars a day. We're talking about a billion dollars a day, OK? And when they have a problem, we send over our ships. We send over our planes. And I don't mind doing it but they could help us out, folks. They could help. They got nothing but money. They are wonderful. They're wonderful. I love they're investing in the United States. I love they're investing in New York in buying properties. They could help us. We are a debtor nation. We owe $19 trillion. We have massive unfunded liabilities. We are a nation that is in serious trouble and it is going up rapidly and Obamacare is a disaster. It's a catastrophe.It's got to be repealed and replaced. It's got to be. First of all, your premiums. I don't even have to see it. Your premiums have gone way up. Your deductibles are through the roof, unless you're hit by a tractor, right? It's true. And the reason I mention tractor, I'll tell you. So Japan now has a great leader, Shinzo Abe. He's a killer.Our negotiator is Carolyn Kennedy who got the job by going into the White House and saying, "I have nothing to do." This was on television. They said, how did you get the job. And she is a nice president. You know I say she is nice? Because my daughter, Ivanka, likes her. My daughter is so great. She is just a great person. My daughter likes her. She said, "Daddy, she's such a nice person." I don't want a nice. I want a killer. We're tired of the nice people.Somebody said it to me, "Mr. Trump, I don't know a woman who is a fan of mine." She said, "I don't know if you have the personality to get elected because you're not a nice person." I said, "Actually, I am a nice person. I love helping people. You watch. You watch. I will help on women's health issues more than anybody including on the Democratic side, women's health issues. You watch. You watch.Bush the other day didn't want to fund them. He said I don't want to fund women's health issues. He didn't want to fund. That's worse than Romney's 47 percent, which probably caused them the election along with other things like you forgot to campaign for about three weeks at the end, OK?" That didn't help. Forgot to go on television for about three weeks.But we have to do something and we have to do it fast. And if we don't do it fast, we're not going to have a country. Now, speaking of that -- speaking of that, you know, it's funning I got a great review on the speech the other night. They say his only problem is he speaks through his applause. You know why? I don't have time to wait for the applause? I want to just do it. It's true.The guy gave me like this great review. He said he is a great speaker. He does it beautiful. He's a -- you know, he's not scripted, which is good. Supposing I was reading all this stuff, you know, with the teleprompter, I actually said if you're running for president, you should not be allowed to use a teleprompter. No, it's true. It's true.It's so easy. No. you walk up -- yeah. You walk...Ladies and gentlemen, hello.No. No.You shouldn't be allowed because you don't know what you're going to get. Look what happened with Obama who is a teleprompter guy. No, it's true. But...Ha?You bet. You're right. You don't want a scripted president.And you don't want a politically correct president because it takes too much law. It takes too much time.It is true. It is true. You don't want this political correctness stuff. Now, I hear there is a certain college -- I won't say it's in your state -- but they don't want you to differentiate between a man and a woman. You heard about this one, right? If that would ever pass, I'm gone. That's too much. But the things that are happening are so crazy.And you know, you talk about political -- you probably heard about the little debate we just had recently. If I were politically correct during that debate I would have gotten clobbered. And instead, we won the debate. And you know, after the debate, all the poll numbers went up. But boy, was that hell of a time? Was that incredible? Was that incredible?So that debate -- that debate has always had like 2 million, 3 million people. You know, the first debate, bam, bam, bam, every four years. There are 24 million people. And probably going to go up much higher than that when the final numbers come in. So do you think they were there for Jeb Bush or Rand Paul? Rand, I've had you up to hear.It is funny though because Rand Paul -- sit down -- I'll ask you a question. Go ahead. Sit down. Do really think I want to say ask you a question? That is OK. He's a good guy. I have seen his face before. He's been at every rally. And what am I going to do? Not take his question? I'll take your question in a minute. One sec -- no. No. Wait.So Rand Paul has been hitting me because he's like -- his polls are like going down. He is weak on military. Can you imagine today being weak on the military? You know what? Even Dobbs are strong. I have a friend -- I mean this friend didn't want to even talk about military. Now, he has become worse than me. I mean he has become like a total -- like this total incredible Hulk, and that's good.So Rand Paul is weak on the military. He is weak on immigration. He is weak on everything. He's got no numbers. So all of a sudden I see him -- you know, he called me up. He said, "I'd love to -- this was like a year ago. He wants to play a round of golf with me. I said, "Oh, no. don't tell me." So I'm actually a good golfer. I killed him, OK? I killed him. If I didn't, I wouldn't say it, but I killed him.But more importantly after that, he said, "Do you think you could do me a favor?" "What?" Could you contribute to my eye center?" I said, "You know what? What do they do? Bam, bam, bam." I said, yes, I will. I gave him a lot of money. I'm not -- I don't want anything. I just gave him a lot of money. Then all of a sudden I see him chirping on the stage. He's like chirping. I said, "Who is that over there, that person?" Who is that he?" And now, he is going around, you know, saying like bad things, whatever, you know.And the beauty is this, nobody ever attacked me like Senator Lindsey Graham -- I mean what he said and he went from 1 percent to nothing.It is true. Nobody ever attacked me. Nobody Like Perry (oh) of Texas, who by the way did a lousy job at the border. I mean he's talking about the border. The guy was governor and he keeps talking about the border. I said, "You're the governor of Texas. Why didn't you fix it?" The new governor is doing much better than him, but we won't say that, OK -- because he's actually a nice man. And he didn't like it when I said you have to pass an IQ test to come on the stage. He said -- no. He said to me, Donald Trump is keeping a senator -- by the way, a failed senator off the stage.I said, "Wait a minute. I went to the best schools, great student, went out, made a fortune. Did The Apprentice -- one of the most successful shows on television ever. NBC renewed it. I said I'm doing it. NBC comes up renewed -- the biggest people in NBC came to my office four months ago, "Please do it. Please. Please." I said I'm not doing that. I'm going to make this country great again. I'm going to run for president. We're going to make the country great.I wrote many bestsellers including -- many best sellers including, "Trump, the Art of the Deal, " which was about the number one selling business book of all time. There he is. He's got it. I said the other night my second favorite book. Did you know what I said is my first favorite book? The Bible.But anyway -- so these people, they went down. So, now I have -- now, I have -- I have a new guy coming. It's Rand Paul and that's OK. And actually Carly was a little nasty to me. Be careful, Carly. Be careful. But I cannot say anything to her because she was a woman and I do not want to be accused of being tough on a woman. I cannot do that, right? Can I do that? Women, am I allowed to fight back? Am I allowed?She has been nasty to me. So I promised that I would not say -- and I said to myself. I promised I would not say that she ran Hewlett-Packard into the ground. I said I will not say that her stock value tanked, that laid off tens of thousands of people, and she got viciously fired. I said I will not say that. And that she then went out and ran against Barbara Boxer for the United States Senate in California and it's a race that should have been won and she lost in the landslide. And I said, I will not say that, OK? All right? So I am not going to say it.So our country has tremendous potential. We have to take back our jobs from China and all of the other people. We have to renegotiate our trade deals by getting people like Carl Icahn and Henry Kravis and our great deal -- we have the greatest dealmakers in the world. Carl is very busy. I called him. He said, "You're doing great. You're doing great." He's a tough guy. "You're doing great. Every poll, you are doing amazing." I said, "Carl, do me a favor? Just relax. I want to do this."If I win, you take China. I'll get somebody else to take this one. I'll get some -- we will have our best. And these people -- Carl I think is a nice guy. But some of them are not nice. Some are horrible human beings, OK? But they are the greatest in the world. Do we want nice people or do we want these horrible human beings negotiating? Horrible. I want horrible. I want the horrible ones. We will make great trade deals. We will save Social Security without cuts. We will...We will come up with health care plans that will be phenomenal -- phenomenal that will be less expensive. We have to get rid of the little artificial circles. I call them the insurance company circles. You know, what I mean. You're in the business. We have to get rid of the artificial circles wrapping around the states all paid for by your local insurance companies because the have monopolies.I have a huge company. And if I'm in New York, I get like no bids. I get one bid. OK? I go to New Jersey, where I have a lot of stuff, I go to California, where I have a lot of stuff. I go to Florida, there are no bids because they have monopoly in their little states. So, they would rather have monopoly than be able to negotiate all over the country. In other words they'd rather have New York sewed up than have competition where they have to actually go and work for their money. That's over. That's over. That's over.And you have phenomenal plans you'll have for much less money. The insurance companies will not be happy, but see, they don't give me money. They give to Jeb and they give to Hillary and they give to everybody. I don't want their money. I was called today by the biggest lobbyist and -- who I have used. It's great. You can do anything. He said, "Donald, I'd love to make a major contribution to your campaign." I said, "I don't want your money." "No. No. No. You don't understand."It was like he never heard this before. He said, I want to really, you know, give $4 million or $5 million if it's OK. You're leading in all the polls." You know, they have to protect -- you know, if Trump wins, they got to protect themselves, right? I said, "You know, you're a friend of mine. You're a good guy. I don't want your money." Because what he's going to do is -- if I win and when one of his companies has a problem, I'm going to do what's right for the people of the country.I'm not going to do what is right for him and his people. So you have the special interest people and you have all of these lobbyist and you have the donors. And I will tell you nobody is going to control us. We are going to work this together and we're going to make it so strong and so great.I used the concept of the Ford plant built in Mexico. It shouldn't be built there. We wanted built in Michigan. We want it built in -- we want it built in New Hampshire. We wanted built in Iowa. How does it help us? You go to the great business schools and you do really well and then you come home and you say, well, let's figure this out. They're going to spend $2.5 billion building a plant in Mexico. They're going to make cars, trucks and parts and they're going to ship it back to the United States. How does that help us? And we get no tax. We get no tax.So, when Jeb becomes president, if that ever happens, or when Hillary, if that ever happens, or when....... Hey -- hey, it can happen, folks. I hate to tell you. I think it's unlikely. I think it's unlikely. But if Jeb became president, when they say, "Mr. President, it's very bad that Ford is building in Mexico." "Oh, OK, we will do something. Let me go to sleep first. We will do something -- we'll do something about it." As soon as he says we'll do something, hey he's not stupid.The lobbyists will call him. They gave him some of this $114 million and the donors in the special interest. And so wait a minute, we have stock in Ford. We want Ford to do what they want to do. You have the -- and the lobbyists will go up to him and say, "Mr. President, you can't do this. These people gave you $2.5 million." "Oh, they did. That's right. I can't do it." And they'll build happily and they'll have a nice plant and we'll lose thousands of jobs and, you know, terrible.Now, what I'd say is different. They will call me, too, but I wouldn't even take their call, but I might take them because some of them were actually nice guy. So, I take them say, no. I'll start the conversation, no. And I wouldn't use color anybody in this because, you know, by the way, I hope the press calls Carl Icahn because he feels very strongly about this, and he wants to do it. He's so anxious to do it. He's got -- he's wealthy as I think -- they all want to do it.You know, a guy like -- I like Carl Icahn. He's worth many billions of dollars. He wants to do it. It's more important to him than -- he doesn't need another deal. I said Carl, "How many deals can you do?" Just make the -- the great deals to this country. That's the great deal. We got to make this country rich. And then we got to make it great.And I've said the same thing to others. But OK, so they come up to Trump, and I wouldn't call any of these guys because this is too easy, too easy. So, they head of Ford calls being up and he says, "Mr. President, we really want to build this plan to Mexico." And said, "Well, congratulations, but you're not going to do it." Well, we're going to go forward. That's OK.Then we're going to judge you with 35 percent tax on every car and truck and parts that comes into our country.Every single one, 35 percent. He says, "You cannot do that." I said, "Trust me. I can do it. Trust me." And what happens is probably they fold before 5 o'clock. It could be they'll play tough and to wait until the next day. I say they fold before 5 o'clock, and the reason is -- the reason I wouldn't waste the time of the killers I told you about, the great negotiators because this is too easy. This is too easy. This is a couple of phone calls.So, what happens now is the next day, they'll call up. And they'll say, "Please, Mr. President." "No, I want you building in the United States, and if you do it, that's the way it is." And they will say, "Mr. President, we're building our plant in the United States." It's that simple. It's that simple.Who would let -- who would let Nabisco -- Nabisco -- who would let Nabisco go to Mexico? Who would let these car companies -- in Tennessee, they were expecting a great deal with a major foreign car company. It's going to be built in Tennessee. It's all set. It's going to be built in Tennessee. It's going to be a great deal. And all of a sudden the last moment, they announced, they're not going to do it in Tennessee. They're doing it in Mexico. Who would allow that to happen?That -- well, Obama. You're right about that. That's' a very good answer. It won't happen. Believe me. With trump, it won't happen.I won't happen. Go ahead. I mean, this guy, I hope these questions worth it. This guy has -- has been standing up for the entire thing when -- I hope this going to be a good question. Go ahead.Let's go. Come on. Got to go.Got to go.This is going by up host meets this guy.Counterfeit substandard parts in nuclear plants in the United States. I'm not surprised to hear that. Why? Am I surprised?And in airplanes, too, gentleman.I love you guys, with this one.Did I do the right thing in letting them in? By the way, he happens to be right. Look, you don't even have to tell me. I guarantee you they have substandard parts in nuclear and in airplanes, and the -- because they get them from China, and when you get from China, you don't know what the hell you're getting. Go ahead. Finish your question real fast. The security bullet proofs. I want these people happy.OK. Given, you know, I got to go. I got to go. Thank you for that.No.You know, what I think your question is great. And I can understand. He's talking about basically counterfeit parts just to cut to the chase. We don't have to know that you're in the nursing home business. What are you trying to talk to some of us about joining her home? Come on. Sit down. No. We think it's good. We think your point is good. Yeah, give it to him. Good. I'll read it tonight around 1:00 in the morning instead of sleeping.All right. It's good. It's good. Go, sit. Come on, come on. Let's go. What a nice guy, right? Nice guy. Hey, he means well. Honestly, he means well. You do.Oh, stand up. You stand up. This guy I love. Tell me, how bad are the vets being treated?Go ahead.That's tremendous problem.Suicide, we'll get into that.Yeah.I didn't hear about it so much since -- some stop writing this unbelievable.I will do that. It can't be. I will do that.Look. It can't be -- great question. It can't be just incompetence. Because it's so bad what's happening to the vets and -- and the V.A. It's so bad that it can't be just incompetence. It's got to be theft and it's got to be a lot more than we're hearing about. So, I would do that. Thank you, man.Go ahead. Come on.OK. I love it. I love it. Thank you.Go ahead. Let's take it. You want to take it. Who wants to leave? Does anybody want to leave?No. I have all night. Let's take a couple of questions. Go ahead. Go ahead.Well, they have to. They got on EPA. They have the EPA.How about the EPA? OK? How about our Common Core folks in Washington? How about Common Core in Washington? Do you think you could get rid of a few there? You're right, right. Good question.Yes, sir. Go ahead. Young guy here. Go ahead.You know, my uncle was a professor at MIT.Pretty smart guy. Go ahead.Yes. We have no victories. Do we have victories? Yeah, when do we meet somebody in trade and -- we don't -- we don't meet any guy.We're going to have so many victories pouring out of your heart in case get in years.You watch. Go ahead.Yeah.Honestly, I think it's wonderful. I want to rebuild our infrastructure first. OK? I think it's wonderful.Go ahead. Yeah? Go ahead. Get -- wait for that mike. Go ahead. Come on. Let's go with it. Just shout. Go ahead.OK.Well, I would...It's total top priority for me. I have so many friends whose family is devastated by Alzheimer's. So, it's -- believe me, it's a total priority. That's something that we should be working on and we can get an answer. There are some answers. They've made less progress than we had hope as you know. But there's some answers.Yes, ma 'am. Yes?The people. I mean, honestly, I've had such a great response. So, I love the question.Somebody, one of my friends -- thank you. One of my friends was asking me what was it's like when you got -- because I've been here a lot. And you know, we've -- we've done so many town halls and so many different meetings, and now we're really -- we're having so many people we need -- the bigger auditoriums which worked out well.And now, you know, I'm going to go see the other auditorium where they didn't have the great real estate, right? And I'm going to see the people outside that are waiting to see us. But -- but...... but the people of New Hampshire are amazing. They like the people that built this country. They work hard, you know, I say, they are smart, they are industrious, and they love this country. They want to see it happen. They are great people. And...... I was so honored, you know, because recently everybody said that a Walker would win Iowa, right? And Bush, who's, you know, falling like a stone, because he's sort of like, you know, I don't know, Kennebunkport? I -- I -- tell me is that really so. Here, Scott that's from a different planet, right?I don't get it. But -- but they said Bush, well he's being down big. And Walker, you have to remember Walker grew up a little in Iowa, became the governor of the adjoining state but what people don't know is they have tremendous massive deficits. They have very, very poor employment, new jobs. They have a lot of dissension. A lot of problems in Wisconsin which is a state I love. But they have a lot of problems with their education. They're having a lot of problems.And with their debt, they're putting tremendous amounts of debt. So, it sort of funny, I was very nice to Walker. He came up to my room. I gave him money for his campaign. I give to everybody. Anybody wants to run, I give, you know, I give a lot of money to people, right? So, I gave him money. He came up to see me about six month ago. They gave me a plaque. He gave me a plaque. You need some money?There, but he gave me a plaque. I know he's very nice. And then I was very nice to him because I can't be mean to somebody that doesn't like, you know, there are couple of guys running that have been so nice to me. And I can't say that about, I want to. And then one of his underlings said something sort of nasty about me. I said, "Oh, finally I can talk about Wisconsin. It was so good." And he plunged in Iowa and I'm leading Iowa big. And we're leading right and we're leading New Hampshire big.Then you know, we are leading Nevada big. And what I loved about Nevada, they did a second part at the poll and the second part of the poll, you saw it. It came out last week. Everybody was really shock. I wasn't because I'm going to bring jobs back into this country. I'm leading all candidates in the Hispanic vote. Everybody was surprised. Say, why are you surprised?I employed thousands and thousands of Hispanics. They are amazing people but people were surprised to see that. So, I'm leading North Carolina, we're leading by massive numbers. South Carolina, we're leading by massive numbers. We're leading everywhere. And a poll came out 32 percent nationwide. Another one 24 percent Fox. CNN came out, it was a massive 24 percent poll.We're leading because people are tired of what's happening to our country. They are tired of being ripped off by everybody in the world.They are tired of it. You know...... the American dream, we talked about it, and I used the expression a lot -- the American dream and we have -- look at all those cameras blazing back there. This is live all over the place. On Fox, on CNN. It's live. I get up to make speech and I speak from the heart. I really do. I don't have -- look, there's nothing.I speak from the heart. But....... but a big portion, not all of it, but a big portion of the media, the political media, particularly so dishonest. They're really dishonest people, and you probably heard me say -- I always say I like to say, the American dream is dead, but I'm going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before, OK?I say it all the time. The American dream is dead, but I'm going to make it bigger, better, stronger than ever. OK. So, I say it all the time. So, I go home a month ago, and my wife saw me speaking on television, and she said, "Darling, that was such a horrible thing you said. It was so nasty." I said, "What did I say?" "You said the American dream is dead." I said, "No. I said it's dead, but we're going to make it great." Right?So, I turn on television, people. I turn on television and I see it, and it says, the American dream is dead, bomb, period. I said, that's terrible. No. It's so dishonest. But the fact is, a lot of people think it is dead. And it's got a lot of problems. There's no question about it. But we are going to make our country great again. We are going to do things with our country...... that are going to be so good and so smart and so spectacular. And we going to be respected by the world, again, and not laughed at like we're all a bunch of stupid people being led by incompetent politicians. It's not going to go on any longer. We're not going to take it any longer. We're going to make America great, again.Thank you, and I love you, people. I love you, people. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, thank you. Give me that. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you.Thank you very much.I wish I could.I love what said.I will. I will.Thank you.Wow. Wow, wow, wow! Unbelievable! Unbelievable!Thank you.Oh, that's so beautiful. You know, now I know how the great Billy Graham felt because this is the same feeling. We love Billy Graham. We love Billy Graham.You know, this all started, we had a hotel and we were going to have 250 or 300 people. And the hotel was great. They called and said, "Something's happening here. We can't hold this. This is crazy, what's going on."And then we went to the convention center and they could have 10,000 people and we're all set and we're excited. And the next day they said, "Too many people. We can't put them in."So we came here. We came here.You know, today if you noticed, we have a stock market not doing so well. We have a country not doing so well. We've been saying it for a long time.We have politicians other than the few politicians that are with us tonight -- well, exclude them. But we have politicians that don't have a clue. They're all talk; they're no action.What's happening to this country is disgraceful.And you know, when I announced I was running for President, I brought up the subject of illegal immigration.And I took a lot of heat -- that, I can tell you.Rush Limbaugh actually said incoming -- "He got more incoming than anybody I've ever seen."And two weeks later, everybody was apologizing to me. They saw that I was right. Between what happened in San Francisco to incredible Kate and her family is such an incredible family, Jamiel (Shaw), and so many people have been so badly hurt.The other day in California last week, a woman 66-years-old, a veteran, was killed -- raped, sodomized, tortured, and killed by an illegal immigrant.We have to do it. We have to do something. We have to do something.... You know, if it rains, I'll take off my hat and I'll prove once and for all that it's mine, OK?... The people that built this country. That's what we have here. I mean, the people that built the country. Great people.So we'll start with a little talk on the illegal immigration -- what's going on.We're going to stop it. We're going to build a wall and it's going to be.You know, it's amazing. The politicians 10 years ago, 15 years ago, they all wanted a wall. But it never went. It never happened. Because somebody didn't want it. Probably a lobbyist.You know, all these guys like Bush and like Hillary Clinton, they're all taken care of -- I don't know if you know -- it's true.No, but when Hillary has $60 million and when Jeb Bush who's totally in favor of Common Core, weak on immigration -- right? Very weak on immigration. Wants to let people come in. Although now, he is using anchor baby.You know, he put out a memo -- "You cannot use anchor baby." Now, because I used it, he's using it. Politicians.But when they have -- in his case, $114 million -- in Hillary's case, she's got $60 million.Now, I don't know that she's going to make it to the game. What do you think? I'm not sure that she's making it to the game.Some bad things came out today. You know, those classified -- you know the word classified.You know, they've destroyed Gen. Petraeus over less and nothing seems to be happening here.So it will be very interesting to see what happens ultimately.But, we have right now and I just got these numbers today. I said "What are they?" 7.5% of all of the births in this country are illegal immigrants. OK?Can't afford it. And they're supposed to stay.Now, I turned out to be right. The 14th Amendment. You know, I had these guys -- "You can't change the 14th Amendment. It will take so long." On that I agree.But you know what? An act of Congress -- the 14th Amendment -- I was right on it. You can do something with it and you can do something fast. You can do something fast.So we have 300,000 babies a year. 300,000 that you have to take care of. We all have to take care of.And you know, in the case of other countries including Mexico, they don't do that. It doesn't work that way.You don't walk over the border for one day and all of a sudden we have another American citizen. It doesn't work that way.Mexico doesn't do it. Other places don't do it. Very few places do it.We're the only place just about that's stupid enough to do it.So, I decided to run -- I've gotten an amazing reception. I have to say, has this been crazy?I mean, it's been wild. I'm a non-politician. The other day, I served jury duty. Right? I told you -- they had "occupation". I refused to put down "politician".But I will say this: We have a great politician here. We have a man here who really have been -- he's the one person I sought his counsel because he's been so spot on, he's so highly respected. Has anybody ever heard of Sen. Jeff Sessions?... Unbelievable guy.He was so great. Such a help.So, I go around and I see so many people and I've been treated so well by the people.And you know, we're leading in every poll. We're leading in just about every state, including Alabama. Big.We're leading in Florida. Could you believe it? We're leading big in Florida.And you know, it's really amazing. I said, "Well Florida, I love Florida." It's a great place, right? Right.But Florida -- we have a governor and we have a sitting Senator and I'm killing them. How do you explain that? Obviously they're not doing a very good job because that shouldn't be happening.But we're winning in Florida, Pennsylvania, Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, North Carolina, Texas.And then, nationally, we're just absolutely way ahead of everybody else.In fact, you know, if this were another country, we could maybe call for an expedited election. Right? I would love that. Can we do that? Can we do that? I'd like to have the election tomorrow. I don't want to wait.So, the reason that I think we see this receptivity is that I know the game better than anybody. I've been on the other side.You know, I was totally establishment... Was handing... millions of dollars to these characters all the time, right? I was like the fair haired boy. Do I look fair haired?But I know the game. I mean, I understand it.And so many people have come up -- lobbyists. I said I don't want money from lobbyists.But recently, last week, a man comes up who's a good guy. I know him... I said I don't want your money. I don't want your money because I don't know maybe I'll rethink it. Should I rethink it? Take it.You know what I should do? How about this? How about if I take his money but in the end, I screw him and don't do anything for him. Is that OK? Can I do that?You know, because I built a great business and I felt sort of stupid. I say I don't want your money.Can I take it please? I promise I won't do anything for him.I told him, I said, "You know, I don't want your money because in two years when you come to see me about something I'm not doing it unless it's good and unless it's going to make America great again." Right? Right?But I'm going to have to rethink it. I think I'm going to rethink that because I think I should take a lot of money -- are we allowed to give it to charity or something? I don't know. Just take it. Just take it.So what happens is these guys come up and I'm lucky. You know, everybody said he's never going to run. OK? You know that. Right?And my wife actually said, "You know, if you" -- she knows me pretty well and she also sees the reaction and for a long time whether it's Trump -- The Art of the Deal, which Obama and Kerry obviously did not read when they did this crazy deal with Iran.Oh, look, the Art of the Deal. Give me that book. I love that book.You know, I said the other day and it sort of played pretty well that is my second -- help her over here -- give me that book. There's always the Art of the Deal and that's the real one; that's the original. That's when they use real paper right?You know, I said the other day 'cause so many people they carry around the Art of the Deal because they're begging, they're begging their politicians "Please, please read the Art of the Deal when you negotiate with China and with Japan and with Mexico and with Vietnam and with Saudi Arabia and with everybody."You know, right now we have a problem where North Korea's getting frisky. Right?Now, recently I ordered 4,000 television sets. I'd like to order them from here. Like the hats made in America. Can you believe it? I was able to find a guy. I had to do that because you know these hats are hot as a pistol. You know that. And they're made in America.And I'm going to give you your book. Believe me, I haven't forgotten about you.But they're made in America.But the other day and now I see today it's sort of pretty hot on the news that our very dear friend North Korea is acting a little bit rambunctious again.So, I ordered 4,000 television sets from South Korea, whether it's Samsung or Sharp or LG or any of them. They're all made in South Korea. I paid a fortune and they're wonderful. And they're wonderful people.They're making a fortune.We don't -- do we have anybody who makes television sets in this country? I almost like don't think so, right?So they're mostly made -- other than Sony, which has lost its way, prices are too high -- but they're mostly made in South Korea.So now I see North Korea is acting up. So I see that we are sending ships and we're getting our troops ready. We have 28,000 troops over there.And we're getting ready just in case... We're going to fight, we're going to protect. We get nothing. We get nothing. What do we get? We get nothing.Saudi Arabia -- and I get along great with all of them. They buy apartments from me. They spend $40 million, $50 million. Am I supposed to dislike them? I like them very much.But you know, Saudi Arabia makes $1 billion a day. A day. That's -- in all fairness, that's before the oil went down a little bit. But that's OK. These are minor details.But, let's say they were, let's say they're making a half a billion ($500 million) a day. That's not so bad, right?We get nothing. And they wouldn't be there without our protection.Even Germany -- Germany's a power. Who has a Mercedes Benz? Anybody? A lot of people. They're a power. They pay us nothing.We defend the whole world.All you have to do -- and we want to be nice.Somebody said, "Oh, that's like the mafia defense." I said, "Don't worry about it, OK? The mafia's not so stupid." All right?They said, "That's terrible to ask for money." No, they said it. They said that's terrible. "How can you possibly ask for money to defend a country?"I mean, tell me, tell me, how crazy are we?Now, we're sending our ships, we're sending our everything. We got -- I'll tell you what. Those 28,000 troops that we have right now on the border between North and South Korea. That's dangerous territory. They're in harm's way. They're in harm's way. And we get nothing. We get nothing.Other than they're a good competitor. I mean, they compete with us. They take our trade. We lose a fortune with them. We lose a fortune with China.We defend Japan.You know, we have an agreement with Japan where if somebody attacks Japan, we have to come to their rescue. But if we get attacked, Japan doesn't have to help us.Do you think that's a good deal?That's sort of like Sgt. Bergdahl. Has anybody heard of Sgt. Bergdahl? The traitor. No, no, the traitor.I call President Obama the five-for-one President.We get Sgt. Bergdahl, a traitor, who by the way six people at least that we know of, six people were killed trying to get this guy back. Six people -- they went after him. They wanted to get him back.So we get Sgt. Bergdahl and they get five people that they desperately wanted for years that are right now back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody including us.How stupid are we? How stupid are we?And you know, the reason we have crowds -- and no matter where I go -- the other night, we're in New Hampshire, we had some -- New Hampshire was so incredible. The crowd. You saw it.You know, every time I go on television it's got to be live. It's live. I said, "Oh, can I have a rest please?"Tonight it's live on Fox. Who likes Fox? I like Fox. It's live on CNN. Who likes CNN?And it's live on MSNBC.Well, they're still working.But I said, "How come it always has to be live? Why can't they just cover me like anybody else where they go the next day and they show a little clip?"Every time I speak, it has to be live. It's ridiculous. But it's OK. Right? We have to suffer with it.But look, the reason I have this really incredible enthusiasm -- and I really appreciate you especially with this weather and this heat and everything else -- but the reason I have it is because I do know what I'm doing.And I don't say that in a braggadocious way. You people are looking for somebody that knows what he's doing. Whatever it is.... I said it the other night -- my second favorite book of all time -- what's my first favorite book? The Bible. The Bible.And as much as I love the Art of the Deal, it's not even close. We'd take the Bible all the way, right?So, I was saying. So they said I wasn't going to run. And everybody said, "Oh, he's never going to run. Never going to run. He's just having fun. Just a good time. His brand --" Like I care about my brand. At this point, my brand --I mean, I lose gutless Macy's because I said about illegal immigration. They dropped my brand. They're not supposed to be -- they're gutless. They're all gutless.I have to sue Univision. Univision -- my poor Miss Universe people -- these beautiful women -- some are girls -- but beautiful women and I get dropped.Think of it. You have these magnificent women who worked all their life to be in the Miss USA contest and the Miss -- and two weeks before the contest, NBC and Univision dropped because they thought my tone was a little bit strong.And it turned out I was right.So here's the good news. I sued them both.And I mean, in the case of Univision, I sued them for $500 million. I want that money. I want that money.So I actually put it on the other day -- Miss USA -- I put it on because it was only fair to the people. And we had it in a small network and it was fun. But who would do that? All because they want to be so politically correct.They actually called and said, "Oh, we'll get it back on soon. We'll get it back on soon."You know, in a case of a couple, they said "Trump loses NASCAR". It was all over the world. A friend of mine called. You know, because I opened with a strong statement, meaning illegal immigration -- we've got to solve the problem.So all over. One day it was NASCAR. "Trump loses NASCAR." I said, I don't have a deal with NASCAR. It turned out that I lost NASCAR -- you know what they did? They rented a ballroom at Trump Doral. Can you believe it? That was my loss. They had a ballroom. And by the way, I kept their deposit and rented it to somebody else.The next day -- I didn't even know I had a deal with them. It turned out they had in one of my places. They're out.The next day "ESPN severs ties with Trump". It's all over the world. ESPN -- I have friends that called me. He's a great business. "Oh, it's too bad about what happened to ESPN." You know what it was? A golf outing at one of my courses in Los Angeles. Can you believe it? This was my big deal.And this was all over the world.I mean, the press. I don't know. Maybe they didn't get it. Maybe they don't get it.I was very disappointed though with Macy's. You know, shirts and ties. It's not a big deal.But they heard they were going to be three pickets in front of the store and they called "Oh, we're going to have pickets. We're going to have pickets."I said, "Look, in two hours they'll be gone. Believe me, they'll go for lunch. They won't come back. Don't worry about it. It's true."But they said, "Oh this is so bad. Can we sever ties?" I said, "I don't care -- sever ties. I don't wear ties so much any more, you know."I didn't like the ties that much anyway. You know why? Because they were made in China. It always drove me nuts. True. But they were good. They were good.But I just hate gutless people.And so the reason that we're getting this receptivity, which is like this all over the place, is because I filed papers and they said I'm never going to run. Then they said I'm not going to sign the big document, which is a one-page document which basically you're giving your life away and I signed.And then they said "Oh, I can't believe it." The pundits -- you know, they get paid a half a million dollars a year to sit there and make jerks out of themselves, right? Call them pundits. Some are great. Some are really incompetent. I could the ones but they're starting to get nicer to me so I think I can't.... But what happens is they said "He'll never file his financials. He'll never file because he's probably not as rich as people think."I said, "Actually, one of the reasons I want to run is because I want to file my financials because they're so good." Because it's true. It's true.So I have like about 102 pages or 98 pages of stuff and they have all these boxes "over $50 million", "over $50 million". And I filed my financials and they were phenomenal. They were phenomenal. Much better.And people realized -- and it was a net worth -- and this is not bragging. I'm going to tell you why. Over $10 billion. That's good, right? Very little debt. Very little debt.In fact, to show you how stupid these people -- it has a line for income and the income was like I think it's over $400 million a year. Is that good? My son is here. Look at Eric. He could live on that.It says a line -- "income" and it's like, you know, varies with different things. But basically over $400 million a year... Is there anybody that would not want to make that much money in one year here?Well, with it comes responsibility but I will tell you this.The reason people like what I'm saying is because I want to put that energy -- whatever the hell kind of energy it is -- I don't know if it's screwed up, if it's good, if it's genius, if it's whatever it is -- I know how to do things.And I'm not going to do -- I don't care about -- you know, we're building a great building on Pennsylvania Avenue, right opposite, between, as you know, the White House and the Old Post Office.You know in real estate business slogan -- "Always get the post office because they were there first." I got the old post office in Washington, D.C. And I got it from the Obama administration. Can you believe that? Now, that's call dealmaking.One of the most sought after buildings in the history of the General Services Administration and I got it. And you know what? They did the right thing because we're doing a great job and we had a great statement. They wanted to make sure it gets done.And it will be opening -- and here's a little story. It's now under budget and ahead of schedule. Do you ever hear that from government?And we just finished Doral and lot of great jobs.And my son is here, Eric Trump. And Ivanka. Has anybody ever heard of Ivanka? And I'll let them run it. I'm not going to let them do any big deals. Just relax, Eric. Just relax. Calm it.But you know what? I won't care about that company. My whole energy -- who cares? We do a building. It doesn't mean anything. My whole energy, my whole being is going to be to make our country rich and to make our country great again.And I mean, it's my primary -- it's my aptitude. I've always had an aptitude for making money. Some people would say "That's nice." One person said, "Mr. Trump, that's very crass." I said, "Why?" "You said you were going to make the country rich. That's very crass." I said, "You have to understand in order to make our country great, I have to make it rich again."We're a debtor nation. He agreed.... So I will devote 1,000%. I couldn't care less about the Old Post Office. I couldn't care less about any of our stuff. My kids are very good. They're going to run it very nicely.And I just want to make this country so great. And that's what's going to happen. And that's what's going to happen.... In Alabama, U.S. Steel -- big closure. Or essentially a closure. And I said, "Why? What happened?"And I went around. And I said, "Anybody work there?" No, I don't think so. I hope not. But big closure.And one of the reasons is China is dumping so much steel into the United States and other countries also.But China -- I love that sign. Look at that, huh? Wow. Wow. Oh, that's true...So China is dumping tremendous amounts of steel into our country.The government is subsidizing it. It's almost like they want us to just die. And they have no respect for us.And again, like Saudi Arabia, like Japan -- I get along with them great.You know, the largest bank in the world is one of my buildings. They pay me rent. They buy apartments. They spend so much money. Am I going to dislike them? I love them.The problem is and I say it all the time. Their leaders are really smart. They're really cunning. They're really sharp. And we have dummies. Right? We have dummies. We have dummies. We have people that don't have a clue and I don't know. You know, some people say they're bad people. Well, I don't think they're bad people. I think they're incompetent people. A lot of people think they're bad. I don't think they're bad. I think they're incompetent.So you look at China and what they've done. And you know, last week and I said this and I've been saying bubble for a long time. You've been hearing it.Last week, they devalued their currency and we're having a lot of hard times because of what they did.And when I hear devaluation of the Chinese currency -- you know the word, the sucking action. That's a sucking like the vacuum cleaner. I hear the sucking action.Two things happen. Two things get sucked out of us. Our jobs and our money. Now, think of it.China sells us our product, takes our jobs, takes our base, does our manufacturing for us, and we owe them $1.4 trillion.That's like a magic act. I call it the magic act in reverse. We owe them money.Japan -- and Japan is back. They have Abe, who's the new prime minister. And Abe is really smart. I mean, he's smart. I met him one time. He's sharp.He's negotiating against Carolyn Kennedy. Carolyn.And I was watching 60 Minutes -- I'll give you guys a plug -- I was watching 60 Minutes and they're doing a feature on Carolyn Kennedy and she's very nice. You know why I like her? Because Ivanka Trump likes her. My daughter likes -- anybody that my daughter likes, right? Anybody my daughter likes -- we love Ivanka.So, what happens is that they're doing a feature and they said "How did you become Ambassador to Japan?"And with Japan, the Ambassador is a very important position because we negotiate. You know, you need somebody sharp. We need a killer. Right? A smart killer, not a dumb killer because there are plenty of dumb killers too.You need somebody sharp.So they said "How did you get the Ambassadorship?" She said, "Well" -- and this is pretty close. You can check it out. "Well, I don't know. I wanted a job and I had nothing to do. So I went to the White House and I said, 'Could I have a job? Do you have anything for me to do?'"And they said, "How would you like to be Ambassador to Japan?" And she said, "Really?" She said, "I'll do it." She couldn't believe she got it.And then they showed the rest of the show as her being wined and dined by Abe and all of these killers. Wined and dined. She's being feted at dinner, at this, and lunches and breakfast. She'll do anything they want. Anything.So I have the smartest, toughest, meanest, in many cases, the most horrible human beings on Earth. I know them all. They're killers. They're negotiators. Some are nice people. Very few. Some are nice people.But I will put the meanest, smartest -- we have the best in the world. We don't use them. We use political hacks, diplomats. We use people that don't have any business ability. We use people that have never done a job.... You know, like as an example, Carl Icahn, did anyone ever hear of Carl? He's an unbelievably brilliant tough businessman. So I called him. I had dinner with him two nights ago.I said, "You know, Carl, I'm doing pretty well. I'm leading every poll." He said, "You're doing great." He can't believe it either.And I said, "If I ever get there, I want you to oversee the negotiations with China and Japan." "I'll do it. I'll do it." He's like "I'll do it."Remember when I said somebody has blood come out of her eyes with hatred? Right? Well, he had blood coming out of it. He will do it. He is an unbelievable negotiator. An unbelievable negotiator.And I know others. I know the best. I know the worst. I know the ones that are overrated. I know the ones that you've never heard about or read about that are better than all of them.But Carl's one of the greats. I mean, he's very famous. He's very rich. And he would love to do it. He'd love to give back.And he knows what's happening. They're ripping us.So they send their stuff over here. And actually, somebody the other day said "What China has done to the United States is the greatest single theft in the history of the world."Isn't is an interesting statement?We've rebuilt China. We've rebuilt China.So you know we have free trade. The problem with free trade is when you have free trade, very important, you need competent leaders. That's the one problem with free trade.I like free trade. I'm a free trader. The problem is you need great negotiators, great leaders. We don't have that.So we're getting killed by everybody. I use these three or four countries. We don't make good deals. Everybody's killing us.So we will have unbelievable deals.A friend of mine is a manufacturer, and he's trying to do business with China. And what he's going -- and he's a great manufacturer. Makes great products. Better than what they did. They don't want him sending his stuff.And he calls me and he goes, "You know, it's impossible to do business. I can't get my product -- they're dumping stuff over here, comes in by the ship load."He said, "It's impossible. I can't get my product -- "Finally gets a product in there and they charge him a massive tax which they call a tariff because it sounds a little more sophisticated, right? And he calls me. And he goes, "It's impossible to do business with China."Boeing does business with China. And they want all of their intel. They want all of their copyrights. They want everything. Otherwise, we're not buying planes.And they're now building big factories -- I don't blame China. I mean, I respect them. Not angry at them. I'm angry at our leaders for being so stupid. I'm not angry at China.And Mexico is the same thing.You know, Mexico is the new China. The other day, Nabisco -- Nabisco. Oreos. Right? Oreos. I love Oreos. I'll never eat them again. OK? I'll never eat them again.No, Nabisco closes a plant. They just announced a couple of days ago in Chicago. And they're moving the plant to Mexico.Now, why? Why? Why?Have you heard? My favorite story is with Ford...So Ford -- great company. They're building a $2.5 billion car factory in Mexico.Now, they're closing up places all over the United States. They're building this massive factory in Mexico.So I went to this great school. I was actually -- you know, I was totally still am really smart. I went to this great place -- the Wharton School of Finance -- hardest school to get into. Even then it was hard to get into. The hardest. But I went to this great business school and I get business. And I fully understand. Really good at this stuff.So they're building a $2.5 billion plant. They're going to close up factories in the United States. They're going to go and build this plant, they're going to sell cars, they're going to sell them back to us, they're going to sell them. Where does that help us? Tell me. Explain. Explain.There's no tax. There's no nothing. There's no nothing. So we're closing plants here. They're building this massive plant in Mexico.Another plant. Also another big foreign car company. There was a plant being built. It was all set to get started. They were going to announce it in Tennessee. You read about it.And this was a couple of months ago. Wall Street Journal. All set to get started. All of a sudden, Mexico took it away. And now it's not going to be built in Tennessee. It's going to be built in Mexico.So Ford is building a plant... I give myself this position. And I say "Let's assume that somebody else becomes President". Wouldn't that be horrible? Wouldn't that be horrible?So let's assume somebody else becomes President. Let's assume a very low energy person, very, very low energy. So low energy that every time you watch him, you fall asleep.... Yeah, Hillary too.So let's say Jeb becomes President... Not good. Not good.First thing's that's going to happen -- like I said, your school's going to hell. People flow over -- but forget about that. So let's say that Jeb doesn't want this plant build.So they're going to call him -- the head of Ford -- and they're going to say, "Mr. President, we want to build it." He'll say, "Well, we don't want it built."The next day or the next hour, he's going to get a call from the lobbyists and the special interests and his donors and they're going to say, "Hey Jeb, we gave you $8 million of your $120 million that you raised. We gave you $8 million. We want that thing done. You can't do that to our people.""Oh, well, OK, I'll approve it." It's going to get done. OK? The plant will get built and that would be it.Now, let's take Trump as President. OK, is that better?Here's the simple question: Who would you rather have negotiating with China, Japan, Mexico, any other? Trump or Bush?Actually, ah, what a group. What a group.Well, you know, it's sort of interesting... CNN does this big report that came out last week that I was leading in the poll. So it's a poll. And everybody says why don't I have a pollster. What the hell do I need a pollster? Every day I wake up there's another poll. Right?You know, they pay these guys like $100,000 a month and they can't function because unless they go and have it vetted with their pollster, they can't talk.And I say, "Why do I need a pollster when every day there's a new poll and they give like 30 pages? I don't have to get a pollster. What the hell do I need it?"But CNN did this very expensive, very well-done poll. It's only well done because I was leading by a lot... And they had leadership. I was way ahead of everybody. They had actually I was very good in -- you know the thing I'll be great at... and I'll do very well at it -- military. I am the toughest guy.I will rebuild our military. It will be so strong, so powerful and so great. It will be so powerful and so great that we'll never have to use it. Nobody's going to mess with us, folks. Nobody. Nobody. Nobody's going to mess with us.So, I look at the various things to do with our country.And by the way, one of them, boy, we're going to take care of our vets. Right? Right?They did a poll but they did a poll on like who's one of the most popular with the vets? I was the most popular person. They like me. And I love them.Because you know why? Because for 35 years, these Senators and these -- other than Jeff, of course. I take Jeff. But these Senators, these Congressmen, these people in Washington, including Presidents, they have done nothing for the vets. They have done nothing. And we're going to take care of our vets.But so they do this poll, and in the poll, I scored really high marks on almost everything other than -- they thought I wasn't a nice person. They said who's the nicest and I was pretty low on that part. And I'm a nice person.But who cares?A woman came up to me and she said, "I'm not choosing -- you're not nice enough to be President."I said, "You know what? This is not going to be an election based on a nice person. It's going to be based on a competent person. We're tired of the nice people."So, I won on the economy. I won on jobs. I won on leadership by massive numbers. Like massive. You've seen it. I won on all these categories.I said, "Why do we need an election? We don't need an election. These are such important categories."But I have had an amazing experience because from the time I announced almost -- other than the first week. That was a rough week. They were hitting me.But the press, which is by the way largely very dishonest. I have to say this. The political media -- I actually think that the political media is less popular than Congress. Can you believe it? And Congress has almost no rating.And in all fairness, 'cause look at all those cameras. They're all live and they're trying to shut off the camera right now. But you know what? They're all live. And so many live cameras.... But I will say this. The media is very dishonest but there is a certain group that are fantastic people and every once in a while I'll get an honest story and I love it. I cherish those stories. They're not often. But I cherish those stories.... They really started treating me much better.Don't forget, when I first ran, I said you know it's amazing. Went to a great school. Excellent student. Smart guy.My uncle was a professor at MIT who was a smart guy. You know, good smart guy. Good family.Do we believe in the gene thing? I mean, I do. Right? You know, I do...But then I went out and built a tremendous fortune and great company. I did the Art of the Deal and many books that were bestsellers. The Art of the Deal is one of the biggest selling -- maybe the biggest selling -- business book of all time.I did The Apprentice. We love The Apprentice. Tremendous.NBC hates me. You know, NBC hates me because they renewed The Apprentice and I said, "Excuse me, I'm not doing it. I'm running for President. I'm going to make the country great again."They actually came up to my office and the top people -- great people from NBC -- and they said, "Please, please"... They said "We had already renewed the show." They had sold most of the advertising. They renewed the show.I said I'm going to run and I'm going to make our country great...I'm hired. You're hired!So, I look at the landscape of our country. I look at where we're going. I look at where we've been.We've had a horrible number of years. A horrible number of years.We can't beat ISIS. I watched the general the other day on television, who's just retiring, which is fortunate. "How do you think we'll do against ISIS?" "Oh, I don't know. It's going to be very tough."Can you believe this?General George Patton, General Douglas MacArthur are spinning in their graves as you listen to this. They're spinning in their graves. He talks about a hard time.And I look at what's going on with the landscape and I get to meet all of the people that I've met over the last period of time and I want to tell you it's been amazing. It's been really amazing.And I want to finish up with a couple of little points.One of them is the Ford deal. Right?Israel -- I love Israel.... The bottom line on Ford -- I love this story because -- so when I get the call, I say, "No, no, no. You're going to build in the United States." They're going to say "No, we don't want to do that." I say, "Let me tell you, sir, you're going to build in the United States."And I will be called by people but I will not have any of their money so I don't care.And they're going say -- and I'll call them in and I'll say, "Listen, here's the story. You're building $2.5 billion in Mexico. We're going to charge you a tremendous little 35% tax."35%.And that tax is going to be for every car and every part and every truck that comes into the United States.And here's what's going to happen -- as sure as you're standing or sitting -- they're going to come back to me the following day. I would say the following afternoon. Let's say 12... And I don't need Carl Icahn. This one is too easy. And they're going to come back and they're going say, "Mr. President, what you're doing to us is terrible. We will build in the United States. We will build the plant in the United States."100%.And I'll say the same thing to Nabisco. It doesn't help us. It doesn't help us.When you look at what's going where Nabisco is closing and so many places are closing, when you look at the kind of money that these countries are making and I'm naming a few -- I mean, so many countries -- we don't have anything left. We're running on fumes. We're running on fumes.There's nothing here.When you look at what happens, they're so much sharper, they're so much smarter, and we're not going to have a country left.We need to have our borders. We need to make great deals.You know, the man in the back just shouted Israel. How would you like to be Israel right now? They relied on us. They're a voice of sanity. They're great people. And we have a deal that is so incompetent, so bad.Think of the deal. We make a deal. Our chief negotiator goes into a bicycle race at 73 years old. He falls, he breaks his leg. That was the good part of our deal. That was the only thing that happened.No, think of it. And I told people last week as I told this last week, I swear to you I will never, ever ride a bicycle at least in a race but I won't ride one anyways.But we have new thing that just came up in the deal.We know all about the 24 day period, right?But the 24 day period -- that doesn't start, that clock doesn't start ticking for a long time. For a long time.So that could be forever. So if they're doing something, believe me, by the time we get there --But there's the all time great.First of all, why aren't they giving us back our prisoners?And second, can you believe this? And second of all, the other day it was determined that Iran in a very important section -- maybe the most important, right? -- is going to do their own policing.They are going to police and they are going to tell us "We swear we're not building anything."It's so sad. It's so sad.Obamacare -- we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare.We are going to come up with a plan and there are so many different ways.You know, you don't know this because you don't think of Obama this way. Do you know who the biggest beneficiaries of Obamacare are? The insurance companies. The insurance companies.Remember I told you special interests and lobbyists -- the insurance companies love it.We can have such great plans if we'd get rid of the artificial lines around every state.I have a huge company, and when I negotiate, I like get one group. They don't -- you can't negotiate.Some of the people that own businesses know what I'm talking about.The insurance companies are so protected, they're making a fortune. We're going to end that. We're going to make it so competitive.We're going to get rid of the artificial barriers. You're going to get such great plans.And Obamacare, I mean, you look at what's happening with your premiums. I mean, look at this. Look at what's happening. Just take a look at what's happening to the deductibles. They're so high, it's impossible. It's impossible.Trade -- we're going to fix it. Health care -- we're going to fix it.Women's health issues -- we're going to fix it.My wife came up to me the other day and she said "It's really sad because people don't understand how you cherish women."I will protect women. It's so important to me. So important.And I heard some of the other candidates -- Jeb and some of the others the other day -- saying we're not going to fund various women's health issues. Can you believe this?I said, "That's the end of his election."Women, I don't think, like that too much. Do we agree?And he said, we're not going to fund women's health issues. A few hours later, he came back and he said he misspoke. Oh, OK. He misspoke.But women's health issues -- so important.We're going to end up taking our country. We are going to make it so strong, so powerful, so loved by people again, so loved.You know, one of the problems that we have and you don't see it tonight but you see it is the tremendous lack of spirit.And I actually thought that President Obama -- the one thing -- he was inexperienced, he never produced a job. Lots of other things. But I actually thought that he would be a great -- a really great cheerleader for the country when he was elected. I thought that he would.And he's really turned out to be a great divider as opposed to a great unifier. Really had.And you look at Baltimore, you look at Ferguson, you look at St. Louis last night over the last week, you look at all of the things that are happening. We're sitting on powder kegs.There's no spirit. There's no jobs. There's no anything.We are going to take this country. I am going to be the greatest jobs President that God ever created. I will tell you that. I will tell you.You are going to be so proud.You know, I oftentimes say the American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and stronger and more powerful than ever before.And that's what's going to happen. I am going to make this country bigger and stronger and better. And you're going to love it and you're going to love your President. And we're going to turn this place around and you're going to be so proud.And you know our whole theme is make America great again. We are going to make America better than it's ever been and we're going to love doing it and we're going to have fun doing it.And I just want to thank everybody because this has been really, really special. Thank you. Thank you very much!Unbelievable. Unbelievable and thank you for -- they set a record. Now I understand why they have a record in this room. What a room. What a place. What a place.Iowa. Do we love it?Great. Great.You know, we had a big day today because a lot of polls came out, and the polls were really nothing short of tremendous. We had, and it just came, in New Hampshire, which is an amazing place with like you incredible people.They love the country and they want to see our country be great again. That's what they want. They work hard. They love it. And we had 35 percent. And the second place was so far back we won't even talk about it because I want to be nice tonight.I want to be nice.In South Carolina we had 30 percent. And that was a tremendous poll, tremendous energy, tremendous money spent. Thirty percent, second place again.We're going to be so nice. Should we be nice or not? Should we be? Yes. A little bit. A little bit.So we had 30 percent. That's the Monmouth poll, big one.The Gravis National Poll just came out, 40.1 percent. That's national, 40.1 percent.I want the election tomorrow.Ann Coulter's here. Ann, can we call for an immediate election, please, OK, like in so many other countries? I want an immediate election, Ann, all right?Go out and buy her book, by the way. It's actually a very good book, and always true.Now, very importantly for Iowa, anybody ever heard of the corn kernel -- everybody heard, the corn kernel poll. We were at 36 percent, won very easily. And so we had four of them. And that came from the state fair.And I'll tell you what. Last week I came to the state fair. I came well equipped in a helicopter. And we took the kids for rides. And those kids love me.Those kids -- and I love those kids. But we had an amazing time. In fact my pilot said, "Is that enough, Mr. Trump?" After going up and down like a yoyo. I said "Nope. You got to keep doing it."So we had -- we had an amazing time. But you know having gotten that vote, because I know it means a lot to the people here, and having gotten that vote is incredible.So here's what's happening. It's a little bit of a different situation I think maybe than has happened before. A great journalist called me, somebody that I don't know, but somebody that I have great respect for, one of the major newspapers.And he said, "Could I ask you one question, Mr. Trump?" "What?" "How does it feel?" I said, "How does what feel?" He said, "This was the summer of Trump." Do you believe this? How good is that for my ego? Is that good?But they said -- he said, I mean and he's really one of the -- now the press is going to say, "Who is it? Who is it? Who is it?" But one of the really top people, not even necessarily a fan of mine, but I think he's becoming a fan rapidly.He said, "How does it feel?" So I said, "Why do you ask that question? Because it doesn't feel -- I mean I got to win."You know it's one thing to have the summer of Trump. It doesn't mean anything unless we win both the nomination. And we got to beat Hillary or whoever's running, whoever is running.No because otherwise it doesn't -- it doesn't mean anything. I don't know. Does it? I -- it doesn't -- if you lose like what does it all matter?And he said "It doesn't matter if you win or not. What you've done has never been done." You know, nobody's seen what's happened here. Nobody's really seen this with the polls and the enthusiasm and the press and the ratings.And you know why those cameras are all red-lighted? Because of ratings. If I didn't get ratings, they wouldn't be here. They wouldn't be here.They're not nice people. They don't care about me. They don't care about you. They don't care about anything. The only thing they care about is ratings.You know when I did The Apprentice, which was a tremendous success. I was hosting "Saturday Night Live." And Lorne Michaels came up to me, and it was bedlam. It was bedlam. The show was number one. It was doing like crazy.And here I am hosting "Saturday Night Live." My mother and father would've never believed this. And Lorne Michaels comes up to me and says, "This is great."I said, "You know, Lorne, it won't always be like this. Someday the ratings won't be good. And NBC will call me and they'll say, I'm sorry, Mr. Trump, but the ratings are no good. We're going to cancel the show."And he looked at me and he said, I'll never forget it, he said, "No, there's one thing wrong. They won't even bother to call." It's true. They won't even bother to call.And you know, The Apprentice  was a tremendous hit. NBC renewed it. I may be like the only one, or one of certainly like you can count them on your hand, that turned down a major renewal.In fact, Mark Burnett said, "You got to be kidding. You got to be kidding. You're turning down a major renewal." He called it a renewal. He said, "You're turning down a renewal. Nobody turns it down."And I turned down a renewal for many, many shows. And you see the kind of money they paid me. Remember you had that certain anchor that said he doesn't believe it, bah, bah, bah. And then he had to apologize. A lot of money, I turned down a lot of money.Because I told the heads of NBC, the head of Comcast, who's an amazing guy, great guy. We'll just call him Steve. But I want to tell you he's a great guy. The head of NBC, the head of reality television, they came to my office like five months ago. They sat in my chairs. They said, "Donald, we want -- we've already renewed -- we want you. We love you." They don't love me so much anymore, I have to be honest.And I said to them, "Fellas, I really want to run for president. I want to make America great again. It's very simple. I want to do it."And...And they didn't believe me. They didn't believe me. And I said, "Honestly, I'm going to do it."And they had the up fronts. The up fronts is when they announce all the shows. And they said, "We're announcing we're renewing The Apprentice with Donald Trump." I said, "I can't believe it." I told them -- nobody believed me.And my wife actually said to me, she said, "You know nobody believes you're running." Because I looked at it serious mostly last time, but you know I looked at it, but very un-seriously over the years. But last time I looked at it pretty seriously.And I said, "What do you mean?" She goes, "If you ever actually announce, you're going to go through... " She knows people like me. Actually I'm a nice person. Nobody knows that.It's true. People don't -- I tell people I'm a nice person. In some ways it's not good because now we're going to talk about China and negotiations. I don't want to be a nice person for that.But I am. I love people. I love helping people.And my wife said to me, Melania, she said, "If you run, you're going to win. But you have to announce. Because if they take polls nobody's going to say you're running, right?" And Ann knows that. And I said, "Well, I don't know."And I'll tell you why. It takes courage to run, it really does. You're really exposing yourself like crazy.The press is -- honestly, a lot of the press is, especially the political press. You know the financial press has been pretty good to me over the years.In Businessweek magazine they named me a while ago the best -- in a people's poll, the best negotiator. Wouldn't it be nice to have a good negotiator? I don't want to brag about it, it's just what they -- wouldn't it be nice?I mean, look at what's happening with China. I've been predicting China. I've been saying China's taking our jobs, our money, our base, our manufacturing. I just told the press.And we owe them. Think of it. They've taken our money and our jobs, our manufacturing. They've taken everything. It's one of the greatest thefts in the history of the world what they've taken out of our country.They've rebuilt China. And we owe them. Think of it. We owe them -- they take everything, $1.4 trillion. How do you do that? That's like a magic act. How good are they as negotiators? They take everything and we owe them money.We owe Japan $1.4 trillion, same number. We owe them both $1.4 trillion for whatever reason, same number. The balance, the deficit, the numbers are crazy.If you look at the deficit we have with Japan, the deficit we have with China, the deficit we have with almost everybody. Honestly, they're abusers. They're big abusers. And by the way, I love them. They buy my apartments. It's true.I own a chunk, the biggest chunk. I own, as you maybe know, the Bank of America -- but a lot of people didn't know. Actually a lot of people didn't know I own the Bank of America building in San Francisco, big, big, big chunk. And it's a great building, got it from the Chinese. I did great. Great.They still don't know what happened.I own 1290 -- big, big chunk, 1290 Avenue of the Americas many building in New York. But I do great with the Chinese. And they're great people. The problem is their leaders are too smart for our leaders. Very simple. I'm a free trader. I believe in free trade, right.I like free trade. I like free trade. But free trade's only good if you have smart representatives. It's not good if we have dummies.It's not good if our leaders are incompetent. It's not good if they've never read "The Art of the Deal, " one of the great books of all time. Second to the Bible, but that's OK. Way, way, way deep second.Do you know how far below it is? Somebody held up the book the other day. I said "That's my favorite book of all time." I said, "No, no, no. Let me change it. It's my second favorite book." They said, "What's your favorite?" I said, "The Bible." It's not even close. People were shocked.They were shocked that I actually said that.But it is the greatest book of all time, the Bible, nothing even close.So we have a situation where people that run for political office, and I've heard this for years, they do really take chances. And it is something that's not very pleasant. And you read things about yourself that don't exist, very little good that -- but a lot of bad things that aren't true.And I have to tell you, with that I've met some unbelievable, really talented political reporters. But I've also met some very bad ones and very dishonest ones. And we have to do something about our country. We have to take it back.You know I've been using a term that hasn't been used in a long time. It's called the silent majority. You're the silent majority. I'm the silent majority.And they're tired of politicians, other than -- are there any politicians in the room? Because we're excluding you. You're fabulous, OK?But politicians are all talk and no action. It's true. They're tired.You know I've been watching Bush on the border. He's in a seersucker suit. He's talking about yes, oh yes, the anchor baby. Oh, I shouldn't say anchor baby.He puts out a report saying do not use the term "anchor baby." Then I used it. My polls go through the roof. And now he's using "anchor baby." And he's taking criticism.And you know the funniest thing is that he's taking tremendous criticism for using the term "anchor baby " and I use it all the time and nobody cares when I say it because they sort of expect it from me I think. You know? Right? Right?Crazy. Crazy.But politicians are all talk, no actions. And you know I saw that a little bit at the debate. And I love doing the debate. I was treated very unfairly at that debate, to be honest with you, but...But, it was fine because I won every poll. Time Magazine, we won the polls. I was so happy. But I was treated -- and then I watched the politicians. And the politicians talk.Now, I have heard that Jeb Bush was the mentor to Marco Rubio, two nice people. I think Jeb is a nice person. He's very low energy. I'm not used to that kind of a person.I'm just not used to it. I'm used to you know dealing with killers, people that "Grrr."I mean, you know, negotiating with Japan, negotiating with China. When these people walk in the room they don't say, "Oh, hello, how's the weather? It's so beautiful outside. Isn't it lovely? How are the Yankees doing?" Oh, they're doing wonderful. Great. They say, "We want deal."He'd jump out of the seat.But I watched -- by the way, before I say this. Who would you rather have negotiating against China, against Iran? What a deal that is, OK. You talk about incompetent people. Against anybody? Jeb Bush, Hillary Clinton or Trump?I think so. I think so. Believe me. Believe me.So -- thank you.You know, it's funny. I was graded on a speech that I made recently. They gave me all A's. They gave me these great grades. They said, "The one mistake he makes is that he speaks through the applause."It's true. You know what? Because I don't have time. It's true.They gave me this great mark. They said he's speaking -- they love the way I move my hands. I never even thought of it. They said they love this, that. But they said he speaks so well. But he speaks through his applause. And it's bad for him because he kills a lot of applause.And I thought about it and I said you know, that's right. And I tried not doing that. But I don't -- I don't like -- I want to get going. You know I want to get things done. Does everybody here know that? Right? You know?So, Jeb Bush was Marco Rubio. And Marco Rubio's a nice guy. And so is Jeb Bush. I think he's a nice person. But I don't care. I don't care if he's nice because I want somebody that's going to make great deals and make us rich again, and he can't do it.So, Marco Rubio was not supposed to run, right, because -- he wouldn't run because his mentor in Florida, the state of Florida, which by the way, I beat both of them in the polls. Can you believe it? A sitting senator or governor and Trump is way the hell up here. It's crazy.But Marco Rubio wasn't supposed to run. All of a sudden he announced he's running. And people thought it was very disrespectful to a person that brought him along, slowly brought him along right? Right. So beautiful.So what happened, and it was interesting. I said oh.Now if it was me, if I were Bush and I brought somebody along and I -- I'm older than Marco, and all of a sudden the guy, the young guy that I brought along says I'm running against you, and it's not my turn but I don't care because I'm really anxious, I'm really driven, for myself I'm driven. And he said, I'm running against him, I don't care.I would really go after that guy. I'd say he's the most disloyal guy. He's a terrible person. He's horrible and I hate him. OK?I'd say -- or at least I'd say it to myself. Probably not to the world, but believe me I wouldn't be...So I saw them on the stage recently. And Jeb said, "Oh, Marco's a dear friend of mine. He's a dear, dear friend. He's such a wonderful person. And Marco's saying, "Oh, I love Jeb."Do you notice Jeb never uses his last name? Why? Because he's ashamed of it. Why?But if I were Marco -- but in particular if I was Jeb, I wouldn't say Marco's a good friend of mine? Marco did something that he wasn't supposed to do. He ran. I've never said this before.And I watch these two guys. And they're hugging and they're kissing and they're holding each other.Very much like actually Chris Christie did with the president.No, I'm only kidding.No, but they're hugging and they're kissing. They're hugging and they're kissing and they're proclaiming their great, deep love for each other.And I'm saying politicians, all talk, no action. It's all bull. We got to stop. We need people that are going to take us to the promised land. We need people that are going to be great.So again, we look at Mexico -- thank you -- which is the new China. By the way, they're doing great. And what's come out, you know a lot of incoming, as Rush Limbaugh said. He said "Trump has taken more incoming " when I first announced. All I did was tell the truth.But you look at Mexico, the new China. You look at Ford building a massive plant there. You look at other companies from Europe, from all over.A plant was going to be built in Tennessee, big, big billion-dollar automobile plant. It's not being built in Tennessee anymore. It's going to go to Mexico.Nabisco -- I have holdings in Chicago. I have a great building in Chicago. Nabisco, they have a factory, big factory. They make Oreos. I'm never eating Oreos again ever, ever.Maybe. Maybe if I can find some made in the United States I will. But they're closing their big plant in Chicago. And they're moving it to Mexico. What's going on? I mean, how stupid are we?You're right.So where and why are we doing this? Why are we allowing it to happen?So what I would do if I were president, I'd talk to these people. Somebody has to talk to them. And if you don't talk to them, it's never going to change. It's never going to happen.And you can get them to stay in Chicago. You can get them to build someplace else in the country. You can get Ford, believe me, to stay in this country.Now, sometimes it's so unfair, the trade agreements. If you look at the amount of business that's been moved out of our -- whether it's Mexico or many other countries, been moved out, it's absolutely uncontrollable by the people that we have currently. And we can do something to change.Now let me just tell you, and I tell this all the time. I'd go to Nabisco or I'd go to Ford. I'd say, "Fellas, I don't want you. I don't want you... "You know I'd have Carl Icahn ready. Killer. Killer. I'd have other people ready. I'd have people that are so nasty, so mean, so horrible nobody in Iowa will want to have dinner with them.It's true. They're horrible human beings. I admit it. They're Wall Street killers, most of them. A couple of them are nice like about 2 percent. But they're the greatest negotiators in the world.I know the best. I know the best. I know guys that are overrated. I know guys that are really good. I know people hat you've never heard of that are better than all of them. We're going to use our best.But I would say to, let's say the head of Ford -- and you've heard me say this because to me that's a big abuse, $2.5 billion for a plant. Do you know how big that plant -- how many plants do we close to build a new plant in Mexico $2.5 billion?You're right.So how many do we do? So I would say very simply, "Fellas, sorry. You got to move back."Now, when they build those cars, trucks and parts, they send them over. No tax, no nothing. And they've come up with a new scheme. Illegals are going to drive the cars over because...No, it's true. It's true.It's true. Because -- because it just works so nicely. Nobody's going to check them. So I just drive beautiful cars. They'll probably keep them and just live happily for the rest of their lives in the United States you know. But we have to do something about it.Now let's say Jeb Bush is president. He knows it's wrong. He's not a stupid person. I don't think. I don't know. What do I know?But let's say he's president and he knows it's wrong. He's going to say, no, no, no, we don't want that. Ford, we don't want you to go. We're going to charge you a tax because you know the way you do it you just say charge a tax, right.And then he's going to be hit by his lobbyists. They gave him millions. You know he's got $135 million, $140 million.I don't have anything. I don't want anything. I don't want money. I'm just taking little small contributions from people. They send it.I mean the woman sent like $7.32. And I was so -- with a beautiful letter. No, it's amazing. I like that because that's like an investment.That adds up to the fuel for the plane for a trip to Iowa, OK? It all does. But who cares? I don't want that because I don't want to be controlled.Last week, you've heard me say this. I turned down $5 million by a big lobbyist. Not a bad person. You know, tough guy. Not a bad person. But when he gives me $5 million, he's not doing that because he thinks I have beautiful hair.It's not that bad. And it is my hair. Ann, is it my hair? It is. It is actually. People don't know that.I proved that you know in Alabama. It was really hot. It was rainy and I took off my hat and everyone said it really is his hair. It's weird.I don't have to do that and it's sort of nice.But you know so we would go over and the lobbyists would say no, no, we gave you millions of dollars, Mr. President, and you owe it to Ford. Let them have what they want.So you got the lobbyists, you got the -- they're going to say -- and after about 10 minutes he's going to say oh I can't really do that, they really helped me in my campaign.With me, they're going to call me because I know all these guys. But they never did anything because I don't want their money. I turned the money down.I turned down so much money, I feel like such a stupid person. No, it's true. First time in my life I feel stupid. Guys are giving me -- offering me millions. "Don, I'd like to give you a million." One guy, I'm telling you, $5 million. I could have it right now. And I turned him down.I go back. I said, "You think I'm doing the right thing?" In fact, how about -- I'll just take a vote. How about if I take this money and promise -- I swear to you that I won't do anything for these people? What about that? No?That's what I thought.I feel so stupid. But you know what? That's the way it has to be. Because I think one of the things they like about me is they're not -- nobody's going to buy me. Nobody's going to buy me.And -- all right. So after about 10 minutes Bush goes out and he says all right, you can build your plant. Build it. I'm sorry. Please. How dare me? I mean it's so terrible that I even thought about doing that, you know, because you contributed money.OK. Me? Different. I'll call them up and say got to go. I don't want you in Mexico.I love Mexico. I love the Mexican people. I have thousands of Mexican people that have worked for me over the years. And even to this day I mean I love the Hispanics. The spirit, I love them. They're incredible people. But we have leaders that can't compete with their leaders. Their leaders are too smart.So I would say to the head of Ford, sorry, I'm not going to approve. You're going to pay a tax where every car and every truck and every part that comes across that southern border, you're going to pay a 35 percent tax OK? That's what's going to happen.And this is too easy. I don't need any of the killers that I told you. I'm going to use them anyway. But this is too easy. This is like, forget it. This is taking candy from like that beautiful little baby, OK, so easy.So what happens is they're going to say no, no, no. And they're going to have people call me. But these are people that they -- I didn't take any money. I didn't take anything. I don't want their money.So they're going to have people call me. And I'm going to say "Get out of here." And if I know them, they'll be friends of mine maybe. I'll say, "I'm not interested."And I would say, let's say this whole process starts at 12:00 noon. I would say by 4 o'clock in the afternoon the head of Ford will call me and say, "Mr. President, we've decided to build in the United States." That will happen.OK. That will happen.If they're really tough, they'll wait until the next day. But I guarantee you, by 5 o'clock the next day that deal -- they're back. And that's great. That's what we need.We need jobs. We can't keep giving out our jobs.You know college debt -- I go all over now. And I see that vets are mistreated in this country so badly.So bad. Oh believe me. You know they did a poll. I'm like the most popular person with the vets.You know I built the Vietnam Memorial in downtown Manhattan, OK? And the vets like me a lot. And they did a poll and people were shocked. I said, "Why would you be shocked?" Because I'm going to take care of the vets.The other one, college. College debt, it's out of control. And I go around and I see students...And by the way, you see what's happening with the colleges? I mean you talk about like what they're doing, the prices of these colleges, the way they're rapidly raising.And students are borrowing money from different -- but also from the government. It's the only thing that the government makes money on, college students. No, it's true. They're making a lot of money on college debt.And the big thing we need is jobs. And students come up to me and they say, "Mr. Trump, I'm borrowed. I can't -- I don't even know how I'll ever pay it off." This is somebody that's a junior or a senior in college. And they -- it's almost like they have no hope.To me it's one of the saddest things I've seen in making the rounds is college students, college debt. And then they say, "And then I apply for jobs."One was telling me, from a very good college, actually a college in Iowa where I was, great college actually. And they were saying, "You know, I worked hard. I became a great student. I -- I just became one of the top students in my class. I can't get a job, Mr. Trump."And a lot of them can't get jobs. So now they have the debt and they can't get jobs because China has our jobs and Japan has our jobs and so many other places have our jobs. We don't have jobs.So they get out and there's no place to go and they don't know what to do. And we're going to solve the problem because we're going to bring back the jobs from China and we're going to bring back the jobs from Japan...And we're going to be fair. But if you look at the deficit, the trade deficit that we have with China, it's astronomical.People say, "How are you going to balance the budget?" How about like making some good deals with China and Japan? Look at the trade deficits.I was in Los Angeles two weeks ago. I saw ships that were so big -- I've never seen anything like it, with cars from Japan. They're pouring off. We sell them -- actually you sell them some beef, right? OK. This is one of the beneficiaries, beef.But honestly, if you ever look at the difference, numbers here compared, it's so crazy. We send wheat. They send cars, we send wheat. It's all going to change. And we're going to have great relationships with these people.You know the amazing thing? Every country in the world thinks that the United States is represented by stupid people. And they're right of course. No, they're wrong: very stupid people.And every country in the world, I mean every country in the world, everybody makes money. And the funny thing is we don't get along with anybody. Think of it. Here we have -- here we have deals that are all bad, and everybody hates us.I just came in and I'm watching on television that we're really in a very bad place with Russia. Now, we're working on the Ukraine, and I think that's fine. But why isn't Europe sort of like leading that whole charge? Why are we always leading?We're working on the Ukraine. I think it's terrible, all that stuff. We got a lot of problems. We're sending an F-22, brand new, gorgeous. And we have fighters. Our best military people are going over there. And we're worried about the Ukraine.And I think Ukraine's great. I think it's -- we should worry about the Ukraine. But you know Germany is over there. Germany is far richer than we are. Germany's made a fortune. We protect Germany for no money, OK. We protect South Korea for no money.So Germany is over there, right. And they're not worried about it. But Obama's talking about the Ukraine, the Ukraine. Germany's sitting around, let these dopey people take care of us, and all the European countries. So we're sending our fighters.Now in North Korea you have a situation where you know he's rearing his head again. I just ordered 4,000 television sets for a big job that I did. And 4,000, that's a lot of sets. They're all made in South Korea. They don't make them in Iowa. I wish.Anybody make television sets? Do you make television sets? They don't make them in Iowa. They don't make them anywhere in this country.So I ordered 4,000 Samsung. It's LG. It's all of them, right? All of them. They're all from South Korea. Sony's from Japan. Their sets aren't as good anymore, but that's OK. But they're good sets. They're great.I paid a fortune. And I'm saying they make a fortune. Look at the deficit that we have with South Korea. I love South Korea. I love all these countries. But why is it that we protect them?So this guy raises his head, nuclear this, I'm going to wipe them out. We immediately send -- we have 28,000 troops over there right now. Which is nothing compared to the million that they have in North Korea, big army. OK. They don't pay us anything. What are we doing?And you know what? Somebody said, "That's not nice, you're asking them to pay." How is -- we're watching the Ukraine, we're watching South Korea, we're watching Germany, we're watching Japan.We protect Japan. We have a treaty with Japan. If Japan gets attacked we have to immediately go to their aid, OK. If we get attacked, Japan doesn't have to help us. Oh, that's a fair deal. That's the kind of deals we've made.No, no, that's the kind of deals we've made. They have nothing. Oh, they got attacked, don't worry about it. But if they get attacked, we have to go over to Japan. Ay yi yi. You ever fly off the long flight?So, we need smart people. And we can straighten this country out. We can make this country so strong. We can make it better than ever, in my opinion. We can make it better than ever.Saudi Arabia. I love Saudi Arabia. The people are very nice to me. They buy my apartments, you wouldn't believe it. It's true. They'll pay me anything. They have nothing but money. They have nothing but money.I have a beautiful plane. All of a sudden it doesn't look so good when I look at some of their planes. I'm jealous. It's terrible. I'm jealous.No, but Saudi Arabia, they make a billion dollars a day. Now, in all fairness that was before the, you know, oil went down. But now let's say it's a half billion. OK. That's pretty good. You make a half billion in a day, pretty good.We protect them, Saudi Arabia. We get nothing. And every time -- if you think in Yemen those folks are after Yemen then you ought to leave the room right now because you're not very smart.Yemen. Did you ever see the border? It never ends. It's a straight line. It never ends. And you know what's on the other side? Saudi Arabia, the oil. If you think they're stopping at Yemen -- they're looking for the oil.Don't forget, I'm the one. I'm the most militaristic person. I would build a military so strong, so powerful, so incredible nobody would ever use it.Nobody would ever -- we would never have to use it.I would have the best everything.You know we have a military where we give to the allies, our allies. We're giving to the wrong allies, by the way. You know that, we're giving to the wrong allies. We don't give to the Kurds.We give to people -- one bullet shot in the air, 2,300 Humvees, armor plated, the best in the world. So I heard they left. And one day they abandoned 2,300. I said, no, no, no. You mean 23. You mean three. You mean two. You can't leave 2,300.They abandoned 2,300 armor plated, the best in the world Humvees because one shot was fired in the air. These are the people we're helping. These are the people we're helping. And now the enemy has the Humvees, armor plated.And we have the ones where they're not armor plated. And our wounded warriors, who are the greatest people we have in this country, they're the greatest.The greatest. And our soldiers aren't protected. And the enemy is because they have these great vehicles that they took. And that's just the Humvees. You could go into everything. They have the best equipment we have.So we have to get smart. And we have to know what we're doing. And I would build, I'm telling you, I am so into it.But in 2000 -- and Ann Coulter knows this. In 2004, as much as I am into the military, which I love and respect, I'm a huge fan of General Patton. I'm a huge fan of General Douglas MacArthur.I'm a person I believe in like marks and students and like education. I think it's great. General Douglas MacArthur to this day has the highest grades in the history of West Point. That means something. You know it means something, right. It's nice. It's a nice thing.And we have to do something, and we have to do it fast. We have to get the generals that are great.There's a general. I won't use his name. But he's leaving. And they said to him the other day about ISIS on television. "Well, what do you think about ISIS, can we beat them?" "Oh, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's going to be very hard, very hard to beat ISIS."And I said to myself, can you imagine George Patton saying oh, it'd be hard to beat? He'd have them knocked out in about three days and say "Where's the next country? Where do I go from here? Where? Where?"General MacArthur getting out with his corncob pipe, right out of the airplane, looking over the land that he just took. Can you imagine him?First of all, they wouldn't go on television. They're too busy fighting. They want to win. They're too busy winning.We don't have winners anymore. We don't have winners in this country. But we're going to turn that around. We're going to have winners.Now, speaking of winners, this is so important. We all know about trade. We've covered it. It's horrendous. I'm going to get the greatest negotiators and we're going to make great trades. We're going to make a lot of money. We're going to be great. Everyone's going to love us. OK?We have -- they're going to love us. True. You know, funny -- before -- in Businessweek magazine, again, they had a story a while ago. The 10 things the Chinese most want.Now, who's tougher on the Chinese than me? I love them. I have respect for them. I just hate what they do to our -- who's tougher than me?The 10 things -- one of the 10 things was anything Trump. Apartments, anything Trump, we want anything Trump. I say how can that be possible? Because maybe they respect me or maybe they respect us. I don't know. But anything Trump.OK. So we're going to be respected. We're going to be really respected.We shouldn't have gone to Iraq and we did. We made a mistake. When we went out we should've kept the oil and you wouldn't have ISIS, believe me. You wouldn't have it.Now people say oh that's such a harsh statement. He said take the oil. Who the hell has the oil? The Iraqi government is totally corrupt. ISIS is -- just formed out of Iraq.So we shouldn't have gone in. And then the way Obama got out was a total catastrophe. And then I said -- total catastrophe.And I said Reuters, 2004 July I said "Don't go in because if you do that to Iraq, " and I'm the one that wants to be like I love -- I love the strength of military. You got to use it in the right location.If you do that, you're going to allow Iran to take over because you're going to decapitate -- there were two powers that were equal. They'd fight. They'd go 10 feet, 10 feet, 10 feet. Then they'd rest. This goes on for decades. They go 10, 10. Right? Right? Am I right?So we decapitate one of them. Now Iran is as we speak meeting with Iraq to take over the country. And you know who's getting the oil, most of the oil, the stuff that ISIS doesn't have? China.You know that China is getting so much oil out of it. You know what we get? Nothing: thousands of lives, wounded warriors who I love all over, $2 trillion. We have nothing.In Afghanistan, which a lot of people don't know is very rich in minerals, not oil, in minerals. We're fighting in Afghanistan and they have very amazing mountains and ridges. We're fighting in Afghanistan over here. And on the other side of the mountain they have massive excavation equipment from China. They're taking out all the minerals as we fight.We need people that are smart. We have people that don't get it.Look at the deal we have with Iran. Look at this deal. It is going to, in my opinion, lead to an arms race the likes of which there has never been.Countries are going to line up for nukes. You're going to have perhaps nuclear proliferation. You're going to see things that you have never seen take place in a short period of time.This is a deal that just the other day it was determined after months. You ever see a deal take so long? The deal's been going on forever.They had our prisoners. We never asked for our prisoners. How about that? You know.Look, having a deal is good. But we should've doubled and tripled up the sanctions and negotiated from strength. We could've done it so easily.Instead we have Kerry that goes on bicycle races. He's in a bicycle race. He's 73 years old. Seventy-three years old. And I said it the last time I spoke I swear to you I will never enter a bicycle race if I'm president. I swear. I swear.He's in a bicycle race. He falls. He breaks his leg. This is our chief negotiator. He's walking in. They're looking at him like "What a schmuck."I watched actually on Charlie Rose. I watched the chief negotiator being interviewed by Charlie, and after five minutes I Tweeted, @realdonaldtrump, I Tweeted. I said, "This guy is too smart for Kerry." I was right.So we have -- we didn't get the prisoners. And we have -- and you know what the excuse was? We didn't ask for them. We didn't want to make the deal too complicated.Think of it. They're fighting us in Yemen. We didn't ask anything about Yemen, like don't fight us.We have a 24-day wait period. So if we think they're doing nuclear, we have to wait 24 days. But see, that's not the worst part. The worst part is the clock doesn't start ticking. It could be months. We have to notify. There's a whole process.I mean they could build, shoot and build a couple of more, shoot. And by that time we still wouldn't be in there checking. In fact I can just see them sweeping up the floor, painting it battleship gray.You know when I was with my father in Brooklyn I used to paint garages battleship gray. I'd always liked -- do you know what I mean by battleship gray? Shiny battleship gray.So what we're doing is crazy. So you have that.And then the beauty of it all, and you heard it two days ago, after years we just found out that they're going to do in the most important section, they're going to do their own inspections. Did you hear this? Iran is going to do their own inspections.Did you hear about this? Well, some of these guys didn't -- where the hell have you been for the last three days? They're smart guys. Three days ago I heard it. Nobody knew. They are going to self-inspect. It is so unbelievable that you just can't even talk about it.And here's another part. We're going to give them $150 billion, plus. And even in the deal isn't approved they get that. In other words, they get that regardless.You know when I do a deal, when I buy something, I pay them when I buy the product, right. Whatever the hell it is. I buy a building. I buy this. I pay them. I put up a deposit, Ann, right? And I pay them when the deal closes.We're paying them even if a deal doesn't happen. I've never heard of this one before. I don't know who came up with the idea. It must've been Kerry.No, it must've been. Because I don't think the Iranians -- you know the Iranians -- Persians are great negotiators. They're natural, great negotiators.I don't believe they would've even thought of this because it's so crazy. No, it's true. They wouldn't have actually said let's do this because it's so far out. Who would ever think of it?They get $150 billion plus, plus. Even if the deal's voted down and if the deal doesn't happen. Which the deal will probably happen because we have a lot of weak people that are going to approve that deal just like they approved Obamacare.You know you elected people that were going to knock out Obamacare. They got to Washington, something happens. I promise this is not going to happen to me.Something happens in Washington. They get elected. They're really going to do a job. They're all enthused. We're going to end Obamacare. We're going to fight. We're going to end this horrible thing with the $5 billion website that doesn't work to this day, by the way, $5 billion. I have about 40 websites that cost me $3.00, and they work.So, we're going to end Obamacare. Pollock, you probably elected some of them. And they go to Washington. I don't know. There's something about Washington.They look at these beautiful buildings, these beautiful halls. And all of a sudden they become impotent. Is that an appropriate word? I think so. They become just -- it doesn't work. But they got elected to knock it out. What happened to these people? What happened?So something happens when people get elected and go to Washington, the beauty of Washington.I'm building, as you know, the Old Post Office, I bought -- I got -- can you imagine? President Obama is in charge of Government Services, who are tremendous people, by the way, they really are. They're very talented people. That's because they chose me. If they didn't choose me I probably wouldn't be saying that. But they are talented people.They're great people. And we're doing a great hotel, one of the greatest hotels -- I think it'll be one of the greatest hotels anywhere in the world. But think of it. Everybody wanted it, one of the most sought-after pieces of property right smack on Pennsylvania between Congress and the White House, best location.You know for the real estate people they know this. Any time you get a post office it's good. You know the post office was always there first. They always have the -- I have the Old Post Office in Washington, D.C.So it's being converted to Trump International Hotel. It's going to be great. And just think of that. I got it from the Obama administration. I can't even -- to this day I say, "Are you sure we got that?"I tell you. But we're doing a great job. And here's the thing. We're ahead of -- think of this. Compare this to government. We're way ahead of schedule and we're under budget. Did you ever hear that before?You don't hear that.So, we have a great country. We have a country with tremendous potential. The potential's here. The people are the potential. We have great people.We have problems all over the place, but they're problems that can be solved. We have to incentivize people. We have to give people spirit.When President Obama was elected one thing I thought would happen, I really thought he would be a unifier. You look at Baltimore. You look at Ferguson. You look at St. Louis the other night. You look at Chicago.You look at so many different places. And you look at what's happening with the African-American youth. It's never been in worse shape, never.You look at what's happening with so many other aspects of our country. And there's a racial divide. There's a divide, period. There's hatred all over the country. I've never seen it like this.We have to unify the country. We have to spiritize the country. We have to create jobs. We have to do a tremendous amount of work. But it can be done quickly.I will say this. If the right person is not elected come next year, I don't know if it can be brought back again, no matter how confident or capable the person.It's going to be too far down the line. No, it's going to be too far down the line.So, just in closing, and you know normally I'd do questions. But this has been such a good time and everyone's heard such a brilliant speech you know.You know, I was with Elton John. Elton John, anybody like Elton John? I like him.And a lot of times like he'll do this last song. And it's so great. It's so unbelievable. The place is standing and roaring and going incredible. And then there'll be like -- he'll come back for like three more, right. And the three aren't as good as the last one. And people go "Good, let's get out of here, Alice."So you know you like to leave on a high note. And I just like this audience. This is a great audience. But I have -- thank you. I love you too. Thank you.But you know I have a statement. I say it all the time. And I told the story one before. And it's that the American dream is dead. But I'm going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before. Right? Right?Good. But I got home one night and my wife said, "Oh that was such a terrible thing you said. It was all over television." And the problem I have with television, look, they're all live.What do I do? Every night I'm on live television. I'm supposed to make speeches.How do you make the same speech? I try and change it up. But every night CNN, Fox, MSNBC, everybody, look at them, they're all live. It's not fair.No, no. These other guys, they go around, they make a speech in front of 21 people. Nobody cares. They make a -- they read the same speech, "Dee, dee, dee, dee." They have teleprompters. I say we should outlaw teleprompters for anybody...Right? For anybody. For anybody running for president. You shouldn't -- you know how easy that would be?Instead of this -- I'm working my ass off OK? Instead of this I could just stand up, "Ladies and Gentlemen, thank you very much, it's wonderful to be in Iowa." You know everybody's going to fall asleep, in a half an hour leave, no mistakes, no problems.But I walk in -- but they're always live, these guys. I think we're going to -- let's start canceling them a little bit. This is -- and by the way, they're getting phenomenal ratings. That's why they're live. They're getting phenomenal ratings.And you know in the old days when I was with The Apprentice  they paid me a lot of money. They don't pay me anything.You know for the debate we had 24 million people. Now normally they'd have like two million people. Right, wouldn't you say, Ann? Two million if they're lucky. They had 24 million. I won't take credit for it, but believe me, 100 percent it's me, 100 percent.It's true. It's true. So, the ratings came out. They were so big and so -- it was the biggest rating in the history of cable television or something like that.And you know I was a little abused, but that's OK. I'm used to it.So what happens, I'm saying to myself well if it's not me, I should go to CNN, they're doing the next debate. And I should say to Jeff Zucker, a great guy, "Jeff, I'm going to do the debate, but I want $10 million for charity." American Cancer Society, AIDS research. We'll pick 10 great -- a million...Otherwise I'm not going to the debate. And honestly I think they'd pay me.I do. I'm offering 100 percent for charity. But it might not look right. I don't know, Ann. I'm going to have to think about it.I sort of like that. Does anybody like that idea?I think they're going to do it.Then we go to Roger Ailes who's a great guy at Fox. And we say, "Roger, you know they did so great at CNN. You did so great at Fox. Let's make it like $12 million, $18 million, all for charity." But I'm thinking about it. I am thinking about it, believe me.So I go home and my wife says to me, "You know, what are you doing? What are you doing? It was a horrible thing you said." And I said, "Why? What did I say?" "You said the American dream is dead." I said, "I didn't say that."And I turn on the television -- TiVo's wonderful. And I turn it on, and they have a cut. It's "The American dream is dead." Cut. I said, "What a terrible statement."But what I do say and I say it all the time, the American dream is -- to a large extent it's in trouble. But we're going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before.And we are going to win the nomination, and we are going to get the greatest people that have ever represented. We're going to get the smartest, toughest, best people to represent us against the world. And we are going to make our country so great again. You're going to be so proud of it.And it's an honor to be with you tonight. And I really look forward to being with you for many, many years to come.Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you.Thank you.Wow! Wow!Amazing. Amazing! Thank you. Wow. So exciting.Do you notice what's missing tonight?Teleprompters. No teleprompters. We don't want teleprompters.That would be so much easier. We read a speech for 45 minutes, everybody falls asleep listening to the same, old stuff, the same old lies. So much easier.So, you know, I have a little debate coming up on Wednesday.And I hear my -- let's call them opponents. Can we call them opponents? We're allowed to do that, right?You know, New York was very nice to you last night. You know that, right? Did they hand you that game? They handed it.I said, I am going to have the friendliest audience. Sit down. I am going to have the friendliest audience. I wasn't sure, was I happy or was I sad.But Jerry Jones is a great guy and deserves everything he gets, quite frankly.And, you know, another great guy is Mark Cuban. Really.And I think -- you know, he's been talking a little bit about maybe some day doing this himself. I think he'd do very well. We may not have the exact same feelings about where we are going, but that's OK.But Mark was great, he actually called me literally a few days ago and said, you know, if you want to use the arena, which is, by the way, is a beautiful arena. This is a great arena.And Dirk, I love him. He's one of my favorite players, one of my favorite. And the mavericks have been fantastic. It's just a great team.But he said if you want to use the arena. I said, Mark, when? How about Monday night? That was like in four days. And you had a big holiday in between.And he said, I think they really like you in Dallas. They really like you in Texas. Maybe you can get a lot of people.Because we were coming here and we thought maybe we would get 1,000. We never get 1,000. It's always like the same thing.You know, we went to Alabama. We started off with a 500-person ballroom.And after about two minutes -- look at all these guys, paparazzi, ay yai yai. Look at this. We got everybody here.We started off, by the way, with a 500-person ballroom. And after about two minutes, the hotel called up begging for mercy. We can't do it. They were inundated. So, we went to the convention center. And that was 10,000. That was wiped out in about an hour.So, we went to a stadium. We had 31,000 people which is, by far, the largest, they say like ever for an early primary. It's probably true.When I see these seats full, can you people see me up there?I don't know. Man. I said to them, don't fill up the upper rings, it's not fair. You are great. Thank you all. I appreciate it.So I want to thank Mark and I want to thank -- where is Pastor Jeffries. Where is he?Come here. I love this guy. Come here.I shouldn't say this, I should not say this, pastor, because, you know, I need all the help I can get. I will say I'm leading with the evangelicals big league, and I really want to thank you, because you've been so good. He said, he may not be perfect, but he's going to make thiscountry great. He's a leader. That's what we need.I want to thank you, pastor. I really appreciate it.He's been so great. I am Protestant. I am Presbyterian just in case anybody wants to know.So the polls come out and we're really killing it. We are killing it.They mentioned a little while ago, Scottie, about the silent majority, it's back. And it's not silent. I think we should call it, maybe we should call it the noisy, the aggressive, the wanting to win, wanting to win majority. That's what it is.We want to win. We're tired of being pushed around by incompetent people. We are just tired of what's happening. We are sick and tired of what's happening, and it's going to change. It's going to change.But before I get to that because that's unpleasant, but it's going to be pleasant because I finished this speech last week. And I have to say, we're going to have so many victories that at some point, they are just going to be coming out of your ears.Though, I have to be careful what I say about coming out of somebody's ears. Have to be careful. Nose, ears, eyes, those are the only places I'm talking about. The only.But we're going to have so many victories and they're going to be great victories. And we're going to have them all the time because we have an amazing country.We have a country that is dying. They just want to have victory.We don't have wins anymore. We don't have it.So, the debate. I hear they're all going after me. Whatever. Whatever. No, I hear it.Everybody, you know all these geniuses, the talking heads, some are great. Actually some have come around.You know at the beginning, three, four months ago -- well, he's just doing this for fun. He's doing this for his brand. I need this like for my brand, OK? But he's doing it for his brand. One person, a real loser said, he's a clown. He's a clown.Now, they're saying, oh, how do we stop this guy? No more clown. I haven't heard the word clown in a while. Tell you, they don't use that word anymore. They don't use it. There's a group of pundits out there, I don't think they'resmart. I think they pretend they're smart. You know, they wear the heavy glasses and they look and they look and they look, I'm not talking about Perry who happens to be a nice guy. Really. He is a nice guy.But he came after me hard, didn't he? Man. You know, I had dinner with him a couple of years ago, I thought he was terrific, then he came after me very hard. You know, I gave him a really good -- it's easy when somebody drops out of a race. I'm going to say good about everybody, everybody. But I like that man and frankly, he tried.But I'm talking about the guys that sit around the tables and they talk about us. They talk about me. And they say, well -- but most of them are now saying, we think he's going to win. Can you believe it?Now, we still have a few out there, the hatred is so incredible, it's so incredible, absolute hatred. I watch some of these guys. Like this guy, should I mention names?OK. I will. The problem is when I mention them, they can never, ever support me. That's the problem.And you know, look at all those live television feeds. It's always tough. Every time I speak, they put me on live television so I have to make different speeches. These guys go around and make the same speech, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of time. Nobody cares.It's true. It's true.It's true.You know, you've got CNN live, you've got them all. And who needs -- no, they're 50 percent good, 50 percent. They've been pretty nice.But you know who really, when you think about it, who has to do this? So I come out today. How many live feeds you have? Look at all those cameras back there. Take a look, everybody.Now, if you like the media, give them a big hand. If you don't, give them a big boo.I had a feeling. You know, the truth is, there's some really great people, I'mdealing usually in the world of financial. That's easier, it's like numbers. You're either good, you're not good, it's sort of much easier.But I found the press to be much more honorable in the financials, the financial media. But the political media -- and I found some great ones. There are some great ones. But should I mention some? I'm not going to do that because you leave some out.But, OK. So George Will is a disaster. The guy is a disaster. Honestly, another one, Karl Rove.No, he's terrible. Terrible. He's terrible. He still thinks that Mitt Romney won. He's still going around saying, I think he won.This guy raised, think of this, he ought to be in Wall Street. He raises money pretty well.He raised last cycle, the last presidential election, he raised $434 million and didn't win one race. Can you believe that? Can you believe it?I understand it because I saw some of the commercials that he made. I saw a commercial he made against Barack Obama, and I called up and I said, who did that commercial? It's one of the best commercials I've ever seen. I've got to use that firm, they're phenomenal.But I didn't realize it was against Obama, it was so good for Obama.That was the one with Germany and this. Remember? Do you want a rock star?Do you want a -- I said, he's not a rock star. We have an incompetent president. This is not a rock star.We have a president that doesn't know what the hell he's doing.So Karl Rove, every night -- you know, some of these guys like George Will and Karl Rove and a few others, but those I'll mention, they like anybody in the real estate business, right? A couple of us. I love real estate.Let me just tell you, one of the great people. Andy Beal. Beal Bank. Stand up, Andy. Stand up, come on. He is a shy man. He's only worth about $6 billion. He's been a great friend of mine. I don't want to borrow any from him because he expects it to be paid back in full and on time, right, Andy?But you look at some of these guys and they're like boilers, real estate. Boilers. Bill O'Reilly said the other night -- and Bill O'Reilly is a good great. Great guy. Great guy.Although he's tough and he's tough with me. That I can tell you. People say, how can you say he's a great guy? But he's fair. I saw Karl Rove on the show the other night and the name Trump came up. And you could see, it was like a boiler ready to explode.I think the guy is a total incompetent jerk, but him and -- and there are others. But I would say this -- anybody that gives him, Karl Rove and others, the group of losers, anybody that gives them money, you're losers yourself. Doesn't make sense, because they don't know what they're doing.So, the polls come out, and everybody is surging but Trump. They don't want to say I'm surging. I went up to 40 percent today in New Hampshire. You saw that -- 40 percent!Second -- second is, I think, 11 percent or 12 percent, right? And I won't mention names because he's actually a nice guy. I'll mention names. Why shouldn't I? Should I? Yes. Right?It's Ben Carson. He is a nice man. I think he's in second place at 11 percent or 12 percent.Now, I'm at 40 percent and it's actually 41 percent but they don't want to say that. They don't want to give me the benefit of a couple of -- you know, if I'm 40.9 percent they'll say I'm at 40 percent. Do you understand that?So, Ben Carson, good guy, I think he's 11 percent or 12 percent. And they're saying -- here is the headline. Carson is surging!I said, what about me? Where's my name? I'm at 40 percent. Where is my name? It's unbelievable. Do you know where my name is?They don't know where my name is either.By the way, can you see in the back? They have the best view. Can you see, it's really my hair?Well, that's the other thing. I mean, I get killed on that. I had an article recently -- it's true. They have the best view. They know.Not that bad, right? I mean, I've seen worse. I have friends, it's over. I have many friends, the hair is over.But I had the article the other -- the other day. A great article. They said Trump is a financial genius, right? They said all good things. They said he's doing great, doing great here and -- but they said he wears the worst hairpiece ever -- the writer said this -- wears the worst hairpiece. And I said that's terrible. If I can't show the article to anybody, even though it was a good article.But in the polls it's been so amazing. We started off, and everybody said -- you remember this -- I won't run. I won't run. And I said, why do they say that? I'm telling you I'm going to run.NBC came over. And as you know -- I like NBC. For years we had The Apprentice. It was a tremendous success, one of the great successes on television. And their head of Comcast, I'd say his first name is Steve and he is a phenomenal guy. Steve Burke, one of the great people. A great guy and a great manager.He came over with a group of people from NBC. Steve is one of the -- he is the head of Comcast. And they said, we're going to renew The Apprentice. And by the way, it's a lot of money. Did you see in my certified financial statement what I made with The Apprentice?When I gave that up The Apprentice, I mean, I made $213 million. Can you believe it? From a television show.And I had -- I had these announcers say, oh, no. I think he only made a million dollars. Guys like Joe Scarborough, who is a good guy, right? Yes. He said, no, no. He's got a prime-time show for years. It's got to be -- when they checked it, 200.So, NBC renews The Apprentice. and I told them don't do it because I'm running for president. I'm going to make our country great again. Don't renew it.Now, you know if I make $213 million over a -- you know, run of 12 years or whatever, that's a lot of money. Even for me, it's a lot. That's a lot of money. That's pretty good, right? Considering it's not my main business.But I made this money, and the people come up, and they say, oh, well. We're going to renew it anyway because he's not going to run. So NBC renewed The Apprentice. They announced it. They renewed it. They said that Donald Trump will do another season, and I told them not to do it.Then I told them that I'm not doing it again. And they went in the up-front arena, and they were so angry at me. They were so angry.But you know what, I give up a lot when I -- when I do this, I give up a lot. I miss all of these deals. I love my business. I love what I'm doing.Andy can tell you that. Tom Benenson can tell you that. I love -- Club Corporation of America, by the way, in case you have never heard of Tom Benenson.But I lose a lot. Not only I don't do The Apprentice  and get paid a fortune. It's also I lose opportunity, all these deals. I have a deal in China. I have deals all over the place that I could do. Boo, boo. But it's true. It's like picking up a check. It'slike picking up a check. But I give up a lot.You know, when a politician, all talk no action, politician runs, what do they give up? They give up nothing. They run. You know what, they run, they lose, they win, they don't care, all they want to do is be reelected or run again if they fail, right?With me, it's -- it's a whole big deal. It's a whole big deal. And you know, I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm not taking all of this blood money. Not doing it.I'm not doing it. And I feel a little bit awkward and a little stupid. I have guys offering me millions and millions of dollars. You know, when you're in number one place, then the blood-suckers come out -- the lobbyists, the special interests, the donors.Don, we love you. Guys I haven't heard from in ten years. Don, we love you. You know, 40 percent in New Hampshire, winning Iowa.We're killing in Iowa, incredible people. New Hampshire, incredible people. South Carolina, incredible people. Incredible numbers there too.We're winning in Florida! Think of it. You have Jeb Bush, governor of Florida. You have a sitting senator in Florida, Marco Rubio, and the poll comes out the other day. Trump is leading in Florida!Can you imagine? Big lead.How about this? Have you ever heard of the great state of Texas?Leading in Texas. How does that happen?So -- so it's been an amazing period of time. I have never experienced anything like it, and I have been well known for a long period of time. That's why I got chosen for The Apprentice  in the first place.In fact, I don't know if you just heard. They called me up today, NBC, couldn't be nicer. They finally calmed down. I settled my lawsuit with them. Did you hear? Did you hear?Yes. She heard.I settled my lawsuit with them last week. A lot of litigation. Settled it. They couldn't have been nicer.And they called me today and wanted everything, you know -- they want me on their side, and I am on their side because I really like the guys at NBC. And they have announced or will soon announce, you know who will take the place of Trump? Arnold!Arnold. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Good, right? I think he's a good choice. And he's a friend of mine. And I approve him 100 percent and I'm with him 100 percent. And I think he's going to do great and we'll raise a lot of money for charity.You know, I'm still in it because I have a big chunk of it. A lot of people don't know that. These are minor details.But I think Arnold is going to do great. And so, they just announced today that he's going to be doing The Apprentice  because I'm not allowed to do it because I'm doing this. So I wish Arnold well.We have so many problems in this country. We'll talk about a few of them. And we'll celebrate because ultimately, we're going to have victory. We're going to have victory. This is a movement that's happening.I had a lawyer come up to see me a little while ago that said Mr. Trump, I've been doing this for 35 years and never seen what happened here. I got a call from a writer from "The New York Times." I have great respect for ""The New York Times." And called up -- I know. I hear that. OK. It's a good story, not a bad story. And he said could I ask you a question? I said what? Very powerful writer, actually. He said how does it feel? How does what feel? He said what you've done has never ever been done before. You've dominated. You have taken over the polls. You know, on television, on FOX and CNN, they call it all Trump all the time. Can you believe it? All trump all the time.And by the way, their ratings are through the roof. If they weren't, they wouldn't put me on. I'll be honest. It's a simple formula in entertainment and television. If you get good ratings, if you get good ratings and these aren't good, these are monster, then you're going to be in all the time even if you have nothing to say. If you come up with a cure for a major, major, horrendous disease and if you don't get ratings, they don't bother even reporting it. It's very simple business. It's very simple.So we've gone on, we've had a lot of fun and now it's time to really start because this is going to happen, I'm telling you, I'm not going anymore. Somebody said today. We're not going anywhere.We are not going anywhere. Somebody said today you've done so well, you don't have to go any further. I said are you crazy? You know what? The writer The Times told me, he said it's been amazing what you've done. I said but I haven't won. We haven't won anything. What if I won? I'm having fun and all, but I haven't won. There's been no victory. He said it doesn't matter. What you've done is incredible. You have won.I said you're wrong, unless I win it's been a waste of time for me, I'll be honest. A total waste of time. I really mean that, too. We should have won, thank you, he said you will win. We should have won last time. Mitt Romney let us down. I mean, he let us down. He let us down. You know, one of the things that I'm really happy about, I'm surging, they said. Can you believe this one? I'm surging with women. Can you believe it?I have such respect for women. I cherish women. I'm going to take such good care of women's health care issues, you won't even believe it, but I'm surging with women. One of the things coming out, I'm watching television and they said Trump is surging with women. I said really? That's amazing. You know, it's incredible. I'll make like statements because, you know, Carly is giving me a little bit of a hard time even though her poll numbers are horrible. She's the one. She was another one. She is surging. Ben is, everybody is surging but me.Hillary is not surging, I tell you that. They are not saying -- thank you.Hillary is not surging. Look, I like Carly and I like Ben and I like many of the people that I'm running against. I mean, many of these people are terrific people, but nobody is going to be able to do the job that I'm going to do. Nobody. They won't.They won't. Don't forget, I love these people in back of me.But they won't. I mean, what I do is I do deals. I deal. I have tremendous energy, tremendous to a point where it's almost ridiculous when you think about it. But we need somebody with great energy, with great passion, with great deal making skills. And we need a closer. We need closers. We don't have closers. We just don't have closers. And honestly, they are not deal people.I'll tell you they are good at raising money for their packs or whatever they holding. Probably, they are not supposed to do that but most of them are doing anyway. It's illegal as hell, but I think they are doing it anyway.You notice they have money in the pack but they don't have hard money, but the pack has given them, I say what is going on over here? How come I can't talk to anybody? And again, I have to tell you this, and I want to have your opinion.So I'm self-funding I told you. But if I took hundreds of millions, I tell you what, I could have $200 million so fast. If I took that, would you people object if I promise not to do anything from the people I took it from? No? I had a group in Iowa, actually, they were much more vocal about thisone issue. And they stood up, no, no, the place -- I mean, I realize how important it is, putting your own money in because I'm telling people that Jeb, nice guy, really a nice guy. Jeb --Hillary.Jeb is more popular than one person I know.But all of them. I don't want to go through the names. They have money put up in packs or hard money, wherever the money is, believe me, I was the king. I was the king. You know, I was the white-haired -- no, blonde-haired, let's say blonde. But, I was the blonde head. I was perfect. I was the ultimate. I was the ultimate sort of insider. I put up money. They loved me. But then when I said I'm running, they all looked at me like the RNC, Reince is a great guy but it took him a little while because they looked at me like you're not supposed to be doing that. You're supposed to be putting up money. And if you need something in two years, three years, five years, they will do whatever you want. And what happened is I know the system I think better than anybody. I know the tax system. Look, taxes. Who knows better than me? We're going to reduce taxes.We're going to make the hedge fund -- any hedge fund guys it would be mostly -- you got good seats. Are there any hedge fund guys in this room? If there are, you should probably leave right now.But I have a friend in the hedge fund business, not really a friend. Not actually a nice guy, but it be goof representing us, I will tell you. Because by the time I finish he might not have much of a hedge fund. But I said what did you make last year? He said about $250 million. This is serious. I said, oh, that's a lot of money. What did you pay in taxes? He goes, Don, practically nothing. That was a couple years ago. I never forgot it. The other day he calls me up because he heard me talk about hedge fund guys are going to pay up. And he call up the other day. I was only kidding, you know, when I said that or sort of it. He doesn't know what to do. The truth is they will do just fine. They will do just fine because we'll make the country so successful, they will end up doing better. They will end up doing better. They will end up doing better.But we got to lower taxes for a lot of people. Corporations paying far too much, far too much, middle income people are being decimated, they are being decimated. I mean, we have a group of 200 guys but the middle income in this country is being decimated and we're going to change it. We're going to change it.So I'll be announcing over the next three or so weeks, I'll be announcing, I think a great tax plan. I know the tax code. I know everything about it, probably as well as anybody, there is, right? And we are going to be doing something that's going to be really pro- growth, really reduction in taxes. We're going to get the $2.5 trillion that's in other countries, we're going to get it back.No, we're going to get it back. And you know, you have corporate inversion. Does anybody know what that means? You know, in the old days people might leave New York for Texas or they may go from New Jersey to Florida or whatever. It's not that way anymore. Now they go from this country to other countries, and they go for two reasons, lower taxes, lower labor, but lower taxes.You have countries that want to charge them nothing. So they take these companies and these guys, they make a fortune, they have no real loyalty in many cases. They have no real loyalty to the United States. They want to show good profit and loss. So they take and go to another country. And all of a sudden their numbers look good. And they can't bring their money back in. And by the way for two and a half, three years, I have seen every politician agrees we should lower the tax on bringing money because it's so onerous that nobody in this room would bring that money back.Everybody says it for two and a half years, Democrats, Republicans, liberals, conservatives, everybody, they can't make a deal. They can't make a deal. We have a government that's really messed up because we don't have a leader at the top. A right leader could get it done.The right leader will get it done and you will see numbers like you've never seen before. I actually believe that and we're in trouble. You know, I've made the statement and I've said this before, the American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before. I made that statement. And I'll tell you what happens and it happens a lot.The other day I went home and I said to my wife, what's wrong? Oh, darling, you were very tough. What? What did I do? Of course, it's live television. She said you said the American dream is dead. I said no, I said the American dream is dead but I'm going to make it bigger and better and stronger than ever before. She said no, you didn't. You just said it's dead. So I turn on television, it's wonderful to record this and see it ten hours later. I turn on television and me standing in this big crowd, the American dream is dead. I said, oh.Again, the dishonest media. I went ballistic. I was so angry. But the American dream is going to be better. I tell you what? We can make it better than ever before. We can do, I mean, we're in Texas. We can do things with oil and gas that will be unbelievable. Unbelievable.Unbelievable. Try sending your oil outside of the boundaries of the United States. How ridiculous. And we're sitting on top because of technology, we can be the number one energy producer in the world right here in the United States. But we have our laws, we have everything is wrong. And I have so many friends in the energy business, they are great people, they are working, they are not as rich as they were about two months ago, but these are minor details. They will be fine. But we can do things with energy that will be so, so incredible, which is great for Texas but great for the country. It's great for the country.Now, China, Japan, true, you can't be upset with China or Japan or Mexico. Can't be upset with anyone. You know, when I announced for the presidency, it was very interesting what happened. I made a beautiful speech. I thought it was wonderful. Everything was fine. A week and a half later, they attacked me. In other words they went to. And then they lied. They made it up. I'm talking about illegal immigration. And I brought up a subject called illegal immigration. And I just saw back stage some of the families who were decimated. Their families were decimated, their sons, their daughters killed by illegal immigrants and it's a massive problem. We have to stop illegal immigration. We have to do it.We have to do it. Have to do it.And when I hear some of the people that I'm running against, including the Democrats, we have to build a wall, folks. We have to build a wall. And a wall works. All you have to do is go to Israel and say how is your wall working? Walls work. And I want people to come into the country but I want them to be legal and go through the process. I want them to come in. I want to have a big beautiful door but they have to be legal. They have to be. And if they are not going to be, they can't come in.And I'll tell you what, the first thing we do, you know, people realize, you look at crime in Chicago, you look at crime in so many different places and you see gangs. Many of these gang members are illegal immigrants. They are rough dudes. They will be out of here so freaking fast --And I think a lot of these countries send them in here because they don't want them. What do they want them in prison for 40 years? Look, look, whether it's any country, their leaders are smarter than our leaders. They are more cunning. They are tougher. They are better. And we take them, Kate in San Francisco, this magnificent young woman shot in the back by a guy sent over here probably pushed over, who knows, but he was an illegal immigrant came over, went to San Francisco. We have to end this sanction wary cities crap fast, fast.So he admits he's guilty. Now he's got a lawyer. Oh, he didn't really know. He wasn't aiming there. It was a ricochet, blah, blah, blah. It's disgusting what's happening to our country.We are a dumping ground for the rest of the world. We are a dumping ground. And let me tell you something, the whole subject of anchor babies, did you hear that character from one of the networks? Anchor babies, just really not a nice term. I said what would you do, what would you say? And it gives me like a 12-word definition. I said no, we'll have to use anchor baby.But I don't mean to be disrespectful, but when a man has a problem and he's got his wife or his girlfriend and they move her over to the border for one day, has the baby on the other side of the border, our side, now that baby is a citizen of our country for however long the baby lives, hopefully a long -- it's wrong. It's wrong. And by the way, by the way, the law doesn't call that. That's not what the law says and people are finding out now that I'm right.We didn't say that somebody can be pregnant for nine months, come across the border, have a baby and now it's ours and we have to take care of the baby forever. It doesn't say that. It does not say it. So we have to straighten out, we have to straighten out our act. We're going to have a great country. We're going to have a great border. We're going to have a border that's a real border. You people are suffering. I'm in New York but from New York, too. They are all over the place. We want people to be in our country legally. Legally.And we want great people, too. We want people of achievement. If you go to Harvard or Stanford or the Wharton school of finance or any of these schools or Yale and you're the top in your close, you graduate and want to stay in the United States and have your career here, you can't. They throw you out. They put you back in China, they send you back to Mexico. They said those are the people, we need those people. We need them in Silicon Valley. We need in Manhattan. We need them in Dallas. We need them. Why are we throwing them out? They want to be in this country and we throw them out. So we have so many things we can do. So many things we can do.Now I'll give you the little thing that happened the other day. Made a speech on behalf of the tea party. And by the way, the tea party people are fantastic people. They are fantastic people. They love the country so much and you talk about people that get decimated, they just get decimated by the media. These are fantastic people. They love this country. These are the people that we want. But I look at what's going on and I look at what's happening and I made a speech in Washington the other day for the tea party and your senator, too, Senator Cruz who happens to be a good guy. Good guy.Now if he comes out and attacks me on Wednesday night, I will take it back immediately. OK? But he is a good guy. So I'm standing there and the capital building has a massive scaffolding around it, right? Have you seen it? Massive. I said man that's a big deal. As a real estate guy, the thing I do best is build. Hey, wouldn't it be good to have the president that knows how to build? Like I'm so good at it. Infrastructures, roads, airports, highways, I could do it for a fraction. You know, I'm building the old post office on Pennsylvania Avenue under budget ahead schedule, can you believe that?And I got it from the Obama administration and everyone else wanted it, which I still haven't figured out but it's going to be a great hotel. But they are doing the capital building and it has got massive, massive scaffolding. And we are having in 2016, you know, we're going to have a thing called like an election and they say that this massive scaffolding.I heard this the other day from a construction firm that this massive scaffolding, they want to have it for the inauguration, wouldn't that be nice for me? But they want to have all the scaffolding down but they can't do the work because they don't have enough time. They have so much time. What are they doing, caulking, pointing, fixing, structure, what the hell are they doing? It is not a big deal.So they are going to take all of the scaffolding down, paying millions to do that, millions and then after the inauguration, they are going to put it back up again and pay millions of dollars. Do you believe that? Right?Now I say do it simpler, get them to work faster. Do you agree? I like the idea. No, no. I like the idea of the scaffolding being down when they are swearing me in, I do. I don't want to see all the scaffolding all over the place. I want to see that beautiful, I want to see it. I love it. Such a beautiful building.But you know what? I told them, I said why don't you just move faster? Work faster. Get it done. So you take it down and you don't have to put it up. They said we never thought of that. Believe it? But they are going to take it down. They are going to take it down. So they are going to take it down and put it back up. Can you believe this?So let me tell you. I'm going to save my first money for the United States. If I win, I will let the scaffolding stay up, OK? All right? I'll let it stay up. We'll save millions of dollars. So in the pictures, they will have some scaffolding. They can probably no a days do something with that. So in the pictures we'll have scaffolding. So not if I win, stand up, what did you say? Not if you win, when you win.So a story I tell is a friend of mine who is a big manufacturer, great guy. Can't do business with China. Can't get his stuff in there. He calls me, he's depressed. He says to me, Donald, I can't deal with China and he's a good guy, does great stuff, better than they do. I can't sell it. They don't take it. Finally take it and charge a massive tax. A massive tax. Another friend of mine recently, he bought an airplane, a rich guy. Bought like for these people here. They probably all have -- but a really good plane.Our country is being drained. Our jobs are being stolen by all these countries, not just them all of them. What would president Trump do? President trump? Trump, trump, trump. What would president Trump do? So I'd call the head of Ford or whatever company. But I'd call the head of Ford. I'd say congratulations. I understand you're building a massive plant in Mexico and you're taking a lot of jobs away from us in Michigan and other places. I don't like that. I don't like it. I just don't like it. And he will say, well, Mr. President, it's wonderful, wonderful for the economy. It's great. It's wonderful. Whose economy? Not for our economy. We lose on everything. We lose on jobs. We lose on money. We lose on everything.So what I'd say is the following, I don't want you to do that. And if you do it, you're not going to have any cars coming across the border unless you pay 35 percent tax. That's it. No, that's it. And they are going to say, they are going to say to me, Mr. President, please, please, please. Now, I guarantee you, let's say I make this call at 9:00 in the morning. By 5:00 in the afternoon I think the deal is done, they move back to the United States. It may take a half a day longer. May be 12:00 the following day, but I guarantee you, so they will -- what will happen is I'll be called by lobbyists but not giving me money. I won't take it.So, what happens, I would say, is that I will get a call from the head of Ford, and he'll say Mr. Trump, you're doing the wrong thing. I'd say, no, no, that's fine. Just do it. Just do what I say. Do what I say. And I guarantee you after I tell all the lobbyists, special interest and people that donate to everybody else but me because I won't take their money, after I tell them all no within a short period of time they will call up and they'll say, Mr. President we decided to move our plant back to the United States, sir.This is going to happen. That's what is going to happen. So, just a couple of more points and you know, it's depressing, isn't it depressing? You know, we're together, we love each other, but it's like depressing if you think about it. Because it doesn't end. I could stand up here all night long, I could tell you stories, they are all depressing. But the good news is, they can all be remedied. Every one of them. They can be remedied. So, Iran deal, Iran deal.They did not read that great book, where is that book? "The Art of the Deal." They did not read it. Secretary of State Kerry, he actually may go down as worst than -- because he made this deal. He may be the worst. He may top her because this deal is the all-time worst. We're giving them 1.5, think of this, we're actually giving them $150 billion. Now think of it. Think of it. We don't have the right to inspect. We have to wait 24 days but before the clock starts ticking, we have to go through this whole process. I mean they could build their nuclear whatever, distribute and then have plenty of time leftover to clean the place up. So, you have a 24-day period, not anytime, anywhere, which is what it should be.Think of another thing. They have one instance where in a very major area, they self-inspect. Now, can you believe this? They do their own inspections. They do their own inspections. And another thing, look, having a good deal, we should have doubled the sanctions, let -- wait for another month or two. They would have come and we would have a deal like you've ever seen. We have our chief negotiators, Secretary Kerry at 73 years old goes into a bicycle race. Think of it. He's wearing the whole gear of helmet, he's like -- he thinks he's in a bicycle race. He's actually in a race. It wasn't just casual, I could understand that. This is a guy that's in a bicycle race. 73 years old, all the gear, falls, breaks his leg in the middle of our thing. Takes two weeks off, goes back with crutches. The people from Iran say, what a shmuck. Can you believe this?But this is who we negotiate with. Now, think of this, it's embarrassing. Isn't it like embarrassing? How do you -- I swear to you if I'm elected as president, I will never go into a bicycle race, I swear.So, but you know, one of the things...Think of it. So what I said is very simple, if you had the right messenger, not Kerry, not Obama, if you had the right messenger, that messenger, let's say it's me. And by the way, by the way, I know the greatest negotiators in the world. And you've heard me say it. Some of them are horrible human beings. They are miserable, disgusting people. Who cares? Who cares? Who cares? They are phenomenal natural negotiators, Andy knows what I'm talking about. These people are so tough and so ruthless and so brilliant. Now, the Ford deal is too easy. I just handled that. No problem. I don't want to waste anybody's time -- let's do it.But I know the toughest guys in the world. Toughest smartest -- I know people that are great. I know people that are overrated, won't use them. I know people that you never heard of better than all of them. I know the toughest guys and the smartest guys in the world. Carl Icahn called me. Carl Icahn is a great guy, very successful. If I put Carl Icahn in charge of trade with China, believe me, believe me, we do great. And, you know, believe me, instead of the people that we have that are political hacks, you know who is negotiating for us? Political hacks, political hacks. I asked for some numbers today before I came here. I said what's the United States trade deficit with China, Japan, and Mexico? Now, listen to these numbers. With China last year, we had a trade deficit of $343 billion. $343 billion. That's gone on for many years. A business that's no good. What do you do, you close it up, you start all over? You forget it. $343 billion. With Japan we're doing much better. It's only $67 billion. I call it that we're losing. OK? Trade deficit. $67 billion. They send us so much, we send them practically nothing.Now, here is the beauty, Mexico. So Mexico, again, I love the people of Mexico. I respect the leaders. But they are too sharp. They are too good. So everyone said they won't build a wall because I said I'm going to build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for it, right? Right?And all of these weak politicians, they are weak people. They are weak, weak people. They won't pay for it. I watch it on television. The idiots like Karl Rove. He said Mexico is going to pay for the wall. George Will, Mexico won't pay. OK, think of this. First of all, there is going to be a wall. This isn't one of those deals where they jump over it, they go to Home Depot, buy a ladder, jump over the wall.This is a Trump wall. This is a Trump wall. This is a real wall.You know, you know, the Great Wall of China is 13,000 miles. It was built 2,000 years ago. It was actually built over a long period of time, but it started 2,000 -- it's a long time. So 13,000 miles. What we're talking about is 2,000 miles, but less, maybe 1,000 because you'll have a lot of territory where you don't need it. You have natural barricades, you have some walls that were built that are OK. Although, I'd like to be nice in uniform. You know, if I ever put my name on it, I want a gorgeous wall.You know. The Trump wall, that would be a beautiful wall. That's why I have to make it beautiful because some day when I'm gone, they are going to name that wall after Trump, I think. But I listened to these guys, and they say, how stupid -- I listened to them today. Some politicians said Trump will never be able to afford the wall. We can't afford it. It's too expensive. It's peanuts. It's peanuts. It's nothing. And Mexico is going to pay. Now, here is the Mexico number, right? Let's say the wall cost $4 billion. You know, they say $10 billion. That means $4 billion if you know what you're doing and the $4 billion will be much bigger, much better, much stronger than the $10 billion. Believe me. Oh, do I know how to build? Greatest. One of the greats.So, let's say it costs $4 or $5 billion. Our trade deficit with Mexico is $53 billion. So four or five billion is peanuts. It's peanuts. Mexico is going to pay and they will be happy. They will be happy.Now, look, if you have some dumb politician negotiating, I agree they won't pay, but when you have Trump negotiating for you on your behalf, they will pay. 100 percent. 100 percent.... by a lot. CBS came out with these monster polls, and for days, they're covering one poll in Iowa. They just keep hitting me with it. and if I would have won it, like I have been doing -- and I have other polls in Iowa where we are leading and big. But they keep hitting me with the one poll. You're going to find out about the media someday, folks, they are the worst. I will tell you, they are the worst.Oh, these people. And, you know, it's interesting. CBS came out with a poll yesterday which was amazing. In New Hampshire, do we love New Hampshire? Now nobody is going to mention it, so I have to. We have CBS, which NBC is not happy about, but they gave me such a bad introduction with Katy, whatever her name is. I have to do my -- that's what you have to find.What you do is, if they don't give it to you, you've got to give it to yourself. Does that make sense? Do it. Just do it. Don't worry about it. They'll say he's terrible; he's a horrible human being. Who cares, right?So in New Hampshire, a very special place. And by the way, they asked where would you like to do this? Because they don't do all these town halls. It's two hours on the NBC "Today Show," which is a great show, and I love Matt. Of course, after the interview, I probably will walk out and say he's terrible. But we love Matt, right? Matt's a good man.So in New Hampshire, listen to this: 38-12. Now, that's CBS. So, Katy Tur, why don't you mention that, Katy Tur? You don't mention that.I'm telling you, seriously, it happened three or four days ago. And it was, like -- it's a crummy newspaper in New Hampshire. A terrible newspaper, actually. And terrible. They do a poll. And it's like a few hundred people.If you take ten people and screw around with it, you'll have a bad result. So here's a good one.Listen, South Carolina, an unbelievable place, we are killing it, 40 -- 40 to 23. OK. So I think 40 to 23, I almost like the 38-12, I mean, that's even better. Right? You know, the 12 is down -- down the tubes. ABC/"Washington Post," a big one just announced on Friday -- I have to announce these because the press refuses.By the way, if I were down, it would be headlines all over the place. I'm sick of it. Every state, every national, one crummy poll. And it wasn't even that bad, and it's all I hear.Washington Post/ABC, 32 to 22. And Gravis, 41. Gravis just came out, 41. So I mean, we -- and I could go on and on, but I'm not going to do it. Because we want to talk about other things like Bush, like Carson, like Hillary. Oi, Hillary.Oh, I can't take another Hillary. Hillary. How bad is it? What a mess. She's always in a mess. You notice, they can never be just run the country, like -- it's always a mess. You know, think of it. You know, I don't want to go back into the past, but, let's do it.But there are always problems. Just run the country. We have a country that's in such serious trouble. We need somebody that can go to China and say, folks, it's time. It's time. You can't keep taking our money. You can't keep taking our jobs. Terrible.So we'll start with Bush, and let's just go. Right? Nice guy, really is. You know, I said low energy. By the way, Carson is lower energy than Bush, I don't get it. I saw him being interviewed. He's lower energy than Bush. He's a nice guy. He's not going in -- you know, these Chinese negotiators, they come in, they're fierce. Fierce. Remember, I said blood coming out of somebody's eyes? These people really have blood. I mean, they see you. They want your jobs. They want your money. They want your base. They want your country. I mean, they want everything.And we need the right people. You need somebody with the right temperament. They are not going to be dealing -- you take low-key people. Low-key people. Bush said, "I don't like Mr. Trump's tone." We have people, their heads are being chopped off in the Middle East. And he's worried about tone. We need tough tone. Believe me, it's time. It's time.So, Bush, you've seen what's happened.That is a big crowd. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much, so nice. So amazing, so amazing. It is so great to be with you tonight. And this was a little, this was a little tough weather. So a couple of hours ago they said, Mr. Trump, I think we're gonna, what? That's OK.We, I love you more, OK. Like I say to my son Barron, I love you he goes I love you more, Dad. So anyway, I love you I do love you. The spirit in these rooms, the spirit no matter where we go is so, is so incredible. And I, you know, a couple hours ago they were saying I'm sorry, sir, you're gonna have to cancel your trip. Can you imagine?They said it's gonna be too tough and too tough, the flying is dangerous, it's really, it's not exactly nice outside, right? I said I can't do that, no I can't do that. I can't do it. So we got here, it was close. It was, it was marginal I have to tell you but we got here. So, you know, in as you probably heard in California they're having a tremendous problem right now. Two were killed as of now and I guess there's one that's on the loose or they're having a fight. This is when we appreciate our great police and our law enforcement. Remember that, remember that.They don't get enough credit, they should get it, and you're always gonna have some bad apples you've seen on television. No matter what business we're in if you're in the banking or anything else but I want to tell you they do one hell of a job. And when you see these shootouts, when you see these shootouts I can tell you one thing, I don't want to do it. You don't want to do it, so we want to thank the police and law enforcement. They're unbelievable people. And with that being said I think could we have a moment of silence. A lot of people killed, and in honor of those people and the victims generally let's have a moment of silence, please.OK. Thank you, thank you. So we have some really special people here. The most powerful people there are, black pastors. You've been hearing a lot about it, and we had some incredible times over the last few days and we've had great support. It wasn't covered properly by the press, never does cover. I mean, they are so dishonest. But you probably read where a large, I don't even know the number but a large group of black pastors came to see me in New York and Manhattan and it was really great. And one of them was Dr. and Pastor Steve Parson.And Steve put together a group of endorsers all endorsers and I said well, you're endorsing me I'm bringing you up for a couple of seconds. I'm gonna see, I don't know if these people want to be preached to tonight. We want to hear about other things, because Steve, you know, can take over the whole night and I'll just leave, you know, that's OK, too. But he's a great guy. He was in New York with the others and I saw him he's been all over television over the last couple of days. And he is a beautiful guy. So, Steve, come on up with your friends. Come on up.Thank you, man. Really, thank you guys. Oh, they've got big power. They have the ultimate power, right. So go and enjoy yourselves. Can you, please, get them a good location? It's pretty tight in here. Thank you, thank you fellows. Thank you. So nice, so nice.Do a fantastic job. I've seen what they do and man, they do a job. Nothing easy in life, you know, nothing easy. Sometimes that can be tough. You work in the inner cities it can be pretty tough, it can be pretty tough. It can also be rewarding and they get great rewards. Thank you very much and thank you, Steve. So we've got a lot going on in this country and I don't know if you saw I tweeted I'm on my way to Manassas, I'm on my way and here I go and first I said we're going to Virginia then we're coming, the truth is you look at what's happening with our country and I said, you know, we're gonna have fun considering we don't have good subject matter, right?We have really bad subject matter. We don't win anymore we don't win. We never win. We don't win with the military, we don't win with trade, we don't win with deals any kind of deals. I look at that Iran deal that's one of the worst things I've ever seen. No, no think of it, think of it. They've already violated the deal, you know, I don't know if you have you heard? They've already violated the deal. The ink isn't even dry. OK? It's not even dry and they violated the deal. So we don't do it anymore. You, you look at surprise is right, she says surprise. Wise guy over here. She says surprise. You're right.Who said that stick up your hand, I want to good. Very good. Very good. So we're gonna start winning and big, we're gonna win, we're gonna win, we're gonna win a lot. We're gonna win a lot. We're gonna win all the time. We're gonna get rid of Obamacare which is a disaster. We're gonna get rid of it. Disaster. And we're gonna replace it with something great. There's so many alternatives, it's so much better. I don't know for those people involved with the whole Obamacare thing and the Democrats have real problems over it because, you know, the voted and it was a fraudulent vote, let's face it. Because Obama lied and in all fairness to your senators and your congressmen who happen to be Democrats Obama lied.28 times he said keep your doctor, keep your plan, keep your everything, everything is great it's gonna be and then these guys got stuck with it and now they have to defend it. And they're not gonna be able to defend it and we're gonna go into a big league, but we're gonna have a plan that's so much better, so much cheaper. You look at what's happening with deductibles on Obamacare it's out of control. You don't, you can't use it. If you get hit by a tractor maybe you'll get a couple of bucks.The premiums have gone up 35, 45 and 55 percent and just the other day in a lot of the very good newspapers frankly, and even in the bad ones, and there are plenty of bad ones. These guys so dishonest. Such dishonesty with the mainstream media I will tell you. Such total dishonesty. But if you look at the, if you look at over the last few days you're seeing a lot of stories that Obamacare is collapsing of its own weight. And, and in 2017 unfortunately, you know, if it's gonna go let it go now so that he has to straighten it out but he's not gonna straighten it out correctly. Because nothing he does is correct, nothing he does if you think about it.Here's a guy, we've got ISIS and others that want to destroy us. And he's more worried about global warming and he believes no, no, think of this and he believes global I mean, he comes out all the time that our biggest single biggest problem is global warming. And I say is this real? Are we living in the world? You have people out there want to blow up our cities want to kill all of our people. They're cutting off heads like it's no tomorrow in the Middle East and far worse. I mean, they're doing everything. They're drowning people in cages. We haven't seen anything like this since medieval times.You know, in medieval times I would read they chopped off heads. I never saw did anyone see chopping off heads until, you know, you just started seeing it over the last couple of years. And, and it's true isn't though? It's true. Whoever heard of this? This is a vicious group of animals and we've got to stop them and we're gonna stop them so strong and so fast, so strong and so fast. Now one of the things I want to tell you this because a lot of you have heard me speak and you've seen, you know, they're always covered on live television. They get ratings. I speak they get ratings, OK.They make a fortune off me and I can't stand them. And they can't stand me, they're always lying and not telling the truth, but they always put me on live television. Nobody else goes on the live television. These other guys running for office they first of all, they don't have crowds like this, believe me. They have, I mean, Bush goes he has like 59 people. It's true. He stands up he starts speaking, everybody falls asleep. We could make a lot of money with him. We'll call him sleep master, put people to sleep. No, but, and the other ones if they have 100 people it's a lot. Every, every place I go we have thousands and thousands. This was only restricted by the size of the room and we have thousands it's packed. And the fire marshal I love, where is the fire marshal? What a, no, he was so good. Because otherwise we were gonna have a lot of people standing outside. They're still coming in the back.You're right, you're right man. So but great people here, great, great people. But we are going to do something that's so special because, you know, it was just mentioned they just said movement. What do you think? Do you think this is a movement? This is a movement. I mean, Pastor Steve said it's a movement. I didn't, I never told him that. He might have listened because I use the expression sometimes but this is a movement. I go to Dallas where the Mavericks play and, oh you guys like the Mavericks? That's good, that's good players.And the owner Mark, Mark Cuban has been great. He's been great to us, you know, I'll have to tell you. And he said you want to use it, use it. And it was like on a Thursday. I said when, he said Monday. I said how many seats you have? Like 20,000. We filled it up in a day-and-a-half. We had no, no, we had time leftover. We had 20,000 in Dallas, we had 20,000 in Oklahoma, we had 35,000 people in Mobile, Alabama. And everywhere we go and I mean, literally we go up to New Hampshire we have crowds that are many, many, many times the size of anyone else. Nobody has even close.Thank you, man. Look at that guy. Thank you, man that's cool. And I like your hat, hold that hat up. Do we like that hat? Look at that, look at that. And he looks better with that with that sort of OK head of hair, I wouldn't say it, right. I wouldn't say the greatest I've ever seen but it's acceptable. Hey, hasn't hurt him any. It's really great, thank you very much. No, it's just an honor to be here. But we're gonna be so proud, so I started this whole thing as you know in June. And it takes courage to run for President, it does, it takes courage. Especially I've never done this before and I'm self-funding my own campaign.But at some point he's gonna have to say I got to attack him because otherwise I'm gonna come in second place or third place or something. So they've all got to attack and I love it when they attack. Because so far everyone that's attacked me has gone bingo, right? It's true, they've gone down. They've gone down big league. I shouldn't say this in front of the pastors because they'll say that's not nice. Is it OK? It's OK, right? They like winning, I mean, it's all about winning. It's really about making America great again, that's what I believe. That's what it's really about. So today I read a big, big article that everyone is afraid to fight me because, you know, so hey look you look at Perry very nice man from Texas, right, Governor Perry.And he was so nice to me, then all of a sudden one day I said he couldn't have said that he was vicious and violent. Went to Washington made a speech, the whole speech was about me for like a half an hour. And I had to attack him, and I attacked him very viciously and I feel guilty. Not really, no I do. I attacked him remember on the glasses and I attacked him on the IQ. OK? And then you have a guy like Lindsey Graham, here's a sitting Senator and you go to South Carolina and by the way, his plan I know so much more than he does. His plan is so bad, it's so stupid. It's so stupid.Remember that in The America we Deserve, I wrote that book in 2000, I wrote about Osama Bin Laden we got to take him out. You got to know where to use your power. And I said, and I don't know how many people saw it but a couple of the announcers in the morning they said wait a minute, that book what was it written 2000. So I had Osama Bin Laden and the reason is I watch and I listen and there's this guy with a big mouth who is very tall and I said wait a minute let me ask you, oh. I hear some friends. I hear some friends, I hear some friends. You know, they don't want to make America great again.I swear, I don't think they do. You know, we want to be a unifier and we have to be a unifier. We have to be and the funny thing is I do a great job with things and they will be a big beneficiary, but maybe they just don't understand it yet, OK. Maybe they don't understand it yet. But maybe the, maybe the police could move them away so we could all hear ourselves, George(sp?). Get them out, we have to, but we have to. Yeah, we have to do that. It's not fair to the people. Thank you. Thank you, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.You know, you know, the sad thing there's like a very small group of people out there although they are pretty noisy I will say. But listen to them. Yeah, will the police remove them very nicely, very gently, please? You know, I'll tell you what happened. So sometimes they'll say I want him out now and then they say he was terrible, he was so nasty, so rough. So then I go, please, be gentle, please. And then they say he's too soft to be President.You know, you can't win. You can't win. So I'll go middle C, yeah, if you can remove them as soon as possible that would be great. Are the police out there I think? After the buildup I gave them I think they're gonna do a great job. Yeah, we have to move them. Thank you very much, thank you very much. Look at it the people are pouring in through them they're coming in. And, you know, the saddest part, you have a few people there you have thousands of people here and the media, the headlines tomorrow will be oh, protestors, right. Protestors. You know what we have, and I say it, I say it and I say it strongly.I used to use the term silent majority and the term has been used over the years, and it really is people that have been abused and we have a majority. But we don't know we have a majority. But it's not a silent majority, it's really become a noisy majority. It really is. It's the noisy majority, and that's OK, that's OK. Because that's what we have to be. We have to be heard now, folks, because our country is going to hell, we have a President who is incompetent, he's incompetent.I'll tell you what this guy is grossly incompetent. When I watch him taking all of this time and you know what, I want clean air, I want clean water, I want it to be immaculate, I want it to be sparkling, I want it to be great. I've won so many environmental awards over the years. You know, I develop I'm good, I'm really a great developer. Now, I'm a politician. But I'm a great developer and I've won so many environmental awards and I'm proud of them I think it's a great thing. But it's gotten, it's gotten out of control and this whole global warming thing, you know, they changed it. Global warming, climate change, extreme weather the reason is it's never sort of working.Now, the extreme weather is about that's, that's really got to work, right? You know, you see I remember during the winter we had sort of a bad storm and they said oh wow, this is global warming, global warming and it's unbelievable. And the snow was all over the place and they said we haven't had a snow now this was the third, the number one snowstorm was in 1889 which blew everything out the window. Look, we're gonna have, you know, like this, it goes like this. And we do want, we want clean air and we want clean water and other things. But it's gotten to a point people are making a fortune off this stuff.And our businesses are being hurt, our manufacturers can't compete, China is over there right now laughing like hell at Barack Obama because we're stopping our plants from functioning and making it so expensive and not any better pollution wise. So we're stopping our plants, we're doing all of this damage. China is agreeing to do things in many years from now, and they'll violate the agreement 100 percent because they always do just like Iran does, just like everybody does. We're like the dummies.We're like the just the dummies, I feel we used to be so proud. Now we feel so stupid. We're led by stupid people and we can't have it anymore, we can't have it anymore. It's unbelievable. And by the way, what I'm gonna do is we're gonna take some questions in a while. You know, it took me it was brutal to get here today I might as well stick around for a while. So, so what we're gonna do you can start thinking about it because in another few minutes. We're gonna talk a little bit about what we have in plans, and I want to take some questions because I always find I love it.I love taking questions, even if they're vicious, horrible, violent questions we'll take them anyway. OK? One thing, you know, with Hillary she doesn't have the strength or the stamina to be President, she doesn't have it. And I know her, I know her, I get along you have to understand. I have gotten along over the years with everybody. I was a businessman. One of the magazines said I'm a world class businessman. Great. I am. I'm a great businessman. I made a fortune and I want to put that same thinking for the country. We owe $19 trillion. It's gonna be $21 trillion very soon, you see this ridiculous budget that was just passed like they passed it immediately.Nobody fights. I always say I know where the Democrats are coming from, but the Republicans in a way are more disappointing. Because they go you elect them and you know what happens. And look, you had in Virginia one of the greatest upsets of all time. And he deserved to be upset. By the way, you know who is back in? That was the end of Bush. Can you believe that? But it was one of the greatest upsets I think it never happened before and you were so smart, I mean, you were so smart. But what happens is they say we are going to end Obamacare. We are gonna make our military strong. We're gonna take our vets and we're gonna make our vets so happy everything is gonna be great. Blah, blah, blah, all words.You know, it's all talk, no action politicians, right, and you love them and you're all for them. And they win their election and they go to Washington I always say it, and they're with their wife or they're with their husband. And they say look, look, Mary(sp?) we finally made it. Look at the beautiful, look at the beautiful columns, look at this. This is like they go into the Capitol Building they say oh, this is beautiful, this is beautiful. Now they have a vote on Obamacare. Oh, I vote in favor of it. I don't want to ever leave this place, this is beautiful. Don't they let us down, you know? I promise you one thing.If I win you'll say when, watch that always happens. But I have to start off, you know, look I am against 15 guys. It was 17, it was 17 now it's 15. And it's drying up fast. You know, yeah you have guys with zero and they continue to go along. Tell me, can that be good for them? I mean, you have guys like Pataki, he can't get elected dog catcher. You have guys, you have guys honestly you have guys that can't even if you think about it can't even, they can't get one percent, they can't get anything. They actually had one of them down with a zero and an arrow pointing left meaning less than zero. It was on television.Now, I think that's a typographical error of some kind because how do you get less than zero. But it's like that's what it is. And some of them didn't even register in upcoming states. And now they've missed their times, right? They've missed their times. And I was told they've missed their times. Well, if a guy doesn't want to put up money because he knows he's not gonna win or he can't get enough signatures to register in a Virginia or a South Carolina or a New Hampshire or wherever it may be, but numbers of them haven't registered, why do we allow them to debate?I mean, if somebody gives up the State of Virginia or if somebody gives up the State of South Carolina because, you know, they're pretty hard to get on the ballot. They are, by the way, I'm already on the ballot. I got, I have so many. I had so many, thank you, thank you. I know, they're just saying we helped you. We had so many you know what we did we took many times the number of signatures. We needed a lot and we did it so quickly, who did it? You did it right here. Stand up and take a bow. But, you know what, and it's true. Thank you honey, really great job. I know that.If somebody doesn't get on the ballot and they can't get on the ballot because they missed their time limit so that means they gave up, you know, a major state some place why would you let them on the debate stage to waste everybody's time? And they're already at zero or one or two. Why would you allow them to be on the debate stage? It's so, it's not unfair. It's just stupid. It's like what are we doing? And you don't have time to talk. Mr. Trump, the war in the Middle East in 30 seconds, sir, what would you do? 30 seconds?And you know, it's funny on the debates and I don't know if you've seen this but I think almost or just about every single poll where they do the online polls after the debate, Drudge who is an amazing guy, by the way if you ever met Drudge, we love Drudge. He's an amazing guy. But Drudge, Time Magazine, Slate, every one of these groups that are doing these online polls there are like six or seven every debate I've won every single poll in every single debate. And I'm really happy about it. Now I'll tell you because it's become a big story. So the other day I said I don't want to brag. Am I OK to brag? Is it all right? So I will.So let's say they would have had a couple of million people watching the first debate, right. You know, and it used to be that these debates nobody even wanted them. The television they had to I think they forced them down their throat, you have to take the debate or we're taking your license away or something, right? So the first debate was by Fox and they had 24 million people actually more than that after the final numbers. But 24 million people which was about the largest in the history of cable television, right. The next one was CNN where they had 23 million people.Now think of this, CNN has covered some pretty events like wars and other things, right. In the history of CNN it was the highest rated show they've ever had. And they made it three hours which they shouldn't have don't because it was too long. Not for me, I could stand up I could do this for 20 hours straight it wouldn't matter. But nobody wants to watch this stuff for three hours, especially when 90 percent of the people know they're not they're doing it, I don't even know why they're doing it but nobody wants it. So that was unfair. And then when we went to CNBC where that guy John Harwood, what an idiot he was. No, right? No, how bad.He's not even a professional. And I have to tell you for four weeks before that he was so nice to me. Oh, Mr. Trump, oh you're so wonderful, you know, Mr. Trump you're great. And then he comes out with a question he reads it, Mr. Trump, and you know, he reads a wise guy question. I said that's not a very nice question to start off the day. But they wanted three hours because advertising sells for so much now that they make a fortune. And I said I'm not gonna let him have three hours I'm not gonna let him have it. And everyone said these same people they said oh, you'll never be able to stop them and I said yes I will.I stopped them I think it took me what do you think, Corey, about three minutes? No, I said I'm not going and I have to tell you Carson said he'll go along with it. So that was very nice, Ben Carson, and he said that was no, I have to give credit where credit is due. Because I've been a little bit rough on him but I have to give credit where he came along and he said I would go along. And just so I went in we went in and I said the two of us we're not doing it and they folded like an umbrella. It took two minutes. So now my big thing is they all say you can't get Mexico to pay for the wall. Try it, try it. We're gonna build a wall. That's right.We're gonna build a wall, it's going to be a great wall, it's not gonna be a little toy, we'll build it not for a lot of money. You know, in China they built the Great Wall of China 2,000 years ago. It's 13,000 miles long, OK, this is serious walls, all right. In our case we need really 1,000 miles, it's 2,000 miles but some is natural borders, natural barriers which are pretty good. Not as good as the wall but you know what, let's use it, right. So we're gonna need about 1,000 miles and think of it. So we're at 1,000 miles, China's did 13,000 there's was 2,000 years ago.They didn't have trucks, they didn't have tractors, they did it the old fashioned way, right, and they got it done and it is a big wall. So what we have is we're gonna build a wall and we're gonna stop people from coming in to our country illegally, OK. We're gonna stop it, it's time. It's time. And if people want to come in legally we want them to come in. They have to go through the process, and if people want them to come in. Now when I first mentioned this all of the other candidates again we started with 17 now we're down to 15, but they're gonna start falling like flies you watch.I mean, it's got to be at some point they got to leave, right, don't they have to leave? I mean, don't they sort of have to leave? We got this one guy he's terrible, he's the worst debater I've ever seen. Kasich from Ohio, no, no. No, no, the guy is the worst debater he's a professional politician he can't speak properly. He's terrible, he's terrible. We have again I told you Lindsey Graham. So they do a poll and I mean, I'm like killing him in South Carolina. How do you beat the Senator? In Florida, so in Florida you have two, you have a Governor and you have a sitting Senator who by the way doesn't vote, he doesn't vote.How would you like to be in Florida and you invest in a young guy, you invest in him. You, you take him to heart and you put him and he's your United States Senator, I mean, to me that's a great, that's a great position, right. United States Senator from Florida. He's in there for about 12 seconds and he decides he wants to run for President. Why? Why? But how would you like to have a guy who doesn't show up to vote? Now you've put in a lot of time and effort on making your choice, but if a man says he's gonna be your Senator and then he goes around campaigning and fundraising.He was the other day Homeland Security very important meeting in Washington. He chose to go to a fundraiser in California. Now I don't know that I'm gonna win Florida but I am killing them in Florida, killing them. And I think I have the ultimate soundbite. I mean, seriously if a guy first of all, Rubio is very, very weak on illegal immigration and he's in favor of amnesty. So you can't win. Bush just to put an end to that because I don't want to mention him, he's a very nice person. Low energy but very nice. We don't need low energy people, folks. We don't need them. We can't afford them. Hillary is, I mean, Hillary. You ever see Hillary?Hillary and I said she doesn't have the strength, she doesn't have the stamina, but did you ever see Hillary? She'll do an event like this and then won't show up like for five, you know what she does she goes home and sleeps. She'll do an event like this and it's actually not, we shouldn't be laughing we should be crying. Because she is by far the front runner. I mean, this other guy is a joke. He gave it up when he said no emails. Bernie, Bernie, he gave it up. I think he just had a hernia operation, you know. He was carrying around the tax code that he wants to make larger. It's true. I actually just made that up, but it's true.No, he just had a hernia operation and so I hope he gets better fast. But he's got no chance. He took Hillary and he gave her the election. He was doing fine and he was getting the second largest crowds. I'm, by the way, my crowds blow everyone away. You know, you know what's sad? I was in, I was in Sarasota the other day Florida and what a great place. And we had a time you wouldn't believe it. It's 12:00 football games, everything going on. We had 12,000 people and I don't, I don't ever say how many people. I let the government say it now. Because we have an amazing Secret Service people, we have amazing people that work here.I had this whole thing and I never mentioned polls tonight. Can you believe that though? I'm so sad, usually I start off by saying and then everybody says including the press and my opponents he always talks about polls. You know why? Because I'm winning all of them. It's true. If I were them, honestly if you think about it one of the major mainstreams asked me not so long ago they said why do you always talk about polls. And I didn't, I never thought of the question. And I said I don't know because I'm winning, I'm winning every poll. It's good to talk about them I don't know what who the hell knows what they mean.I think they mean something, right? It is sort of strange. You know, they interview 392 people and they say with certainty that you're plus or minus three and it's sort of an amazing thing. I studied it at Wharton I guess it works because, you know, frankly there's something going on. But then when you have many, many, many of them and I'm number one in every single one and number one in every single state and number one I mean, you look Iowa number one, New Hampshire number one, South Carolina and big, big margin. Big margin.They got to really work hard to catch me in New Hampshire let me tell you. Those people, and the people in Iowa. These are great people. And then you go down you South Carolina, tremendous. Every, and then we go to Nevada tremendous. And in Nevada I win the Hispanic vote. OK? They do, and I've always said I'm gonna win the Hispanic. Because I'm gonna bring jobs back, I'm bringing jobs back. I'm bringing them back from China and I'm bringing them back from Japan and I'm bringing them back from Mexico and I'm bringing them back from Vietnam and everyplace. We're gonna have jobs again. We're going to have jobs.You know, the number one and I'll probably get it tonight so I can maybe just avoid this question but the number one question I get I go around I see a lot of different places, I use a lot of college auditoriums and all because the crowd sizes. And a lot of students come up, Mr. Trump, what can you do to help us? We're choking. They're choking with debt and the biggest thing they're choking with they then go for two years or four year to college and they can't get a job when they get out. And they're good students and good colleges and they can't get a job.It's one of the most heart wrenching questions I get. And you see these students and they're borrowing money from, you know, to a large extent from the federal government where it's the only thing, it's just about the only thing the federal government makes money with is student loans. Maybe that's the only thing it shouldn't be making money with, you know, if you think about it. But we're gonna do something with it. And, you know, I don't know what's going on with the colleges but those colleges they're going up like a skyrocket. You know, things are sort of even, nobody is going up but the colleges.So somebody is doing something wrong. And one of the reasons the colleges go up is because the federal government pays for the student, but the students can't afford to pay that much. And we got to look a little bit into the colleges. Why are they going up more than anything else? They must be making a fortune. Let's buy a college. You want to buy a college? Don't buy it, don't buy it. But there is something going on. But one of the saddest things is when you see these students and the worst is they're really good and I mean, I've met so many of them and I feel so badly for them. But it gives me more inspiration because I'm gonna create the jobs.They can't get a job when they graduate. They can't get jobs and we're gonna change that around. When they go through college and they do a good job, and especially for the good students. You know, you have students that work really hard to be good students and then they can't they come out, they come out and they can't find anything. They don't know what to do. And then they owe money to the federal government, then to everybody else. And they've done everything they can to get through that college. We're gonna, we're gonna start winning in this country and we're gonna start helping them out.We're gonna help them out, you know. I always talk about the vets and everybody is gonna have a great vet plan. Nobody treated worse than the vets. Illegal immigrants are treated better than our vets, I'm telling you. No, it's, it's they're being treated better than our vets. And that's gonna end. We're gonna treat our vets, we're gonna treat our vets good. And I put in a policy plan a couple of weeks ago. I was on a great, great ship. And we were, it was an amazing day on the Wisconsin, and we put on, the battleship. I said can we use this? Look at this ship, you can't build them like this anymore.They sort of didn't give me the answer because that looks like an awfully, I love renovating. You know, I love buying a building, the foundations are there, the structure is there, the outside is there. Have to replace windows sometimes. If you can keep them you keep them. Like I'm doing the old post office in Washington. Way, yeah you know, yeah that's right. You people would know it, one of the most beautiful buildings in Washington, was a disaster for 30 years. Put it out to bid, think of it in the Obama administration Trump got it. Can am I a good deal maker? OK.One of the most sought after properties in the history of the government services, you know, GSA and we're now under budget and ahead of schedule. Think of that, and that's what you want in the country. That's what you want in the country. And it's gonna be one of the best hotels anywhere in the world. The, the we're old we're calling it if you don't mind Trump International Hotel. I didn't want to keep it the old post. Somebody said well, we have to keep the name. The government they were saying we have to keep the name the old post office. But it's not a post office it's a hotel, we have to change it.But I will tell you and I've dealt with the GSA and they're really terrific people. You really have some, you know, you have some great people in government. You really do. If we can be lead properly this country is gonna go to a level that you won't even believe. You know, I've been saying over the last two months because I've met so many people like yourselves and it's really similar. There is so much love in the room, but I've met so many people and I've seen the genius of these people and I've been saying we're not only gonna make our country great again, we're gonna make it in my opinion I really have the potential to do it greater than ever before.I really believe it. And we'll make it great and we'll build it up and we'll make it rich again. You know, somebody a woman came up to me and said Mr. Trump, that's a little crass to say rich. We got to make it rich. We're a debtor nation right now. She said I'm voting for you, Mr. Trump, I love you. I love you but, please, don't say we're gonna make it rich, Mr. Trump. It's crass. I said I have to say it, I have to be truthful.We're gonna save Social Security, we're not gonna cut Social Security, we're not gonna cut Medicare, you know, Carson wants to cut Medicare. He wants to get rid of Medicare. I say, you know, it's actually a program that works great. Now you have waste, fraud, abuse in Social Security and Medicare. We'll take care of that, we'll have proper, but you're not gonna be cut. You've been paying into your plans, you've been paying into Social Security for years.Now they're coming up to you it's getting to be that time, me I don't want the Social Security, OK. But it's getting to be that time where you're gonna need it. And I think it's unfair after all these years they want to cut you. Governor Christy wants to, wants to raise the age so that you have to wait another, you know, pretty extended period of time. It's not fair. You've been, you've been paying in for years. We're gonna take money back from all these countries that have been just absolutely eating our lunch and we're gonna have so much money. So I said to the woman I said, you know what, it may be crass but I have no choice.We're gonna be so rich and we're gonna, what we're going to do and you're talking about tremendous money. Don't forget when China when you have imbalances of 400, 450 billion, billion, not million 450 million wouldn't be good, right. How about 450 billion a year, a year? And then they say, oh, that's terrible. I am a free trader, I believe in free trade. But it has to be smart trade, we can't be stupid people, right? So they say, oh, Trump isn't a free trader. He's not, oh, this is terrible. I said no, no, I'm a free trader but when for years we have a trade imbalance with China of over 400 billion every year that's called dumb trade.That's not, that's we have to be, and then the head of China comes and poor Obama, oh, it's so sad. He greets him with a steak dinner, a steak for what? And he talks about our partner. Well, I want to be a partner, too if I can be a partner where I'm making 400 to $450 billion. I agree. And the guy in China the head man good looking guy, strong as hell, you know, different system over there. That's like one of these systems you keep pounding each other and the toughest smartest guy gets up to the top. We don't do that over here. That's their system and I don't know if you know how it works.From the time they're in kindergarten the smartest, the toughest, the smartest the toughest, by the time they get up to that little point that guy is tough. So he's looking at Obama talking about this wonderful relationship we have. He's building islands, military islands in the South China Sea. I don't think he got an environmental impact statement, do you agree? Do you think they went out and said oh, we have to do our environmental impact statement? No. They just put about 300 excavators out there and they started digging that ocean and dropping that sand. Now and by the way, I heard this the other day and I two things.I've been saying bomb the oil and keep it. Now I didn't want to go into Iraq, I should get credit for vision. And I'm more militaristic than anybody other than him, anybody in this room. No, this guy looks like a seriously, he looks like a warrior. But I'm more militaristic than anybody in this room, but I want to build that military so strong, but I've been saying don't go into Iraq. And in 2003 or '04 a delegation came from the White House because I get a lot of publicity for whatever, even as a developer. Then I do the Apprentice that was a huge hit. By the way they wanted to extend me.They came in, Steve Burke the head of Comcast and incredible guy came to my office with executives from NBC and they wanted to extend me. I said, Steve, I want to run for President. He said no, no, no, we want to extend you. Nobody thought I was gonna run, nobody. He said no, no, and they announced they're gonna extend the Apprentice with me. And that would be season 15 and 16 I mean, you know, it's been a great hit. And I said no, I don't want to do that. And I just held my breath, you know, the famous escalator scene, right.I held my breath I said to my wife, oh, are you sure I want to be doing this? And I said let's go. And we went down that escalator and we stood, you never saw that. It looked like the Academy Awards. The press, the press. I mean, even now look out tonight, it's so many cameras back there. The other look at all those red lights, every word, every word. No think of it, every word. But, you know, it's an amazing thing.So I said to my wife come on let's go. And she waved beautifully, you know, on the escalator I'm waving. And then I went up I talked about illegal immigration. And little did I know I was hitting a nerve that was so incredible. And I'm telling you had I not made that speech and had I not talked about what's happening because after that you had Jamiel killed, which who is this wonderful man. You saw his father probably over the last couple of days on television.Just shot viciously shot for no reason whatsoever right off the sidewalk, shot. And then you see Kate in San Francisco, shot by an illegal immigrant. And you see all of the tremendous crime. And all of a sudden people stopped beating. Did I take abuse? Rush Limbaugh said nobody has ever taken more incoming than Trump. I was saying if this is gonna be like this I don't know if I can last for a year-and-a-half. This is a lot of incoming. I never heard that term with respect to the press or the PR. But Rush Limbaugh said it.He said I've never seen a man take incoming like that and then he has a news conference and he doubles down and he said I'm right about it. Somebody else, no, it's sort of strange. Because I know how it works. You got to be smart and you got to be tough. Somebody else would have gone up and other people have said this, I would like to apologize is there any way I can apologize to the people for the, you can't do that when you're right. You're right, you're right you got to stick with it. But I said, I said at this level of intensity there's no way any human being can make it for a year.But all of a sudden people started seeing I was right. And if I didn't bring that up and if I didn't take all of that unbelievable harsh and unfair punishment from the mainstream media I'll tell you what we wouldn't even be talking about illegal immigration. We would be talking about the crime, and don't kid yourself. I don't mention it that often because I'm really good at this stuff, but the jobs that are being taken away from the people that are in our country. We're losing tremendous numbers of jobs. So we're gonna change that whole system. It's gonna be changed. Remember this, you know, you have to give points for vision when you elect somebody.I think I have everybody in this room, I'm pretty sure. Do I have everybody, everybody? I think so. I think so, I mean, you know, I leave these places and they say well, they're there because he's a great entertainer. I'm not here to entertain, folks, I'm not an entertainer. I'm not an entertainer. But a lot of the, you know, I'll read stories like the people in the room are there because he is a wonderful show and a wonderful entertainer and that's not the reason you're here. You're here to vote. Please, don't, don't waste my time with the entertainment stuff, OK. I'm not an entertainer, believe me. I'm somebody that knows how to get things done,I'm a guy that's won all my life whether it's the Apprentice or whether it's business or whether it's the Art of the Deal, one of the most incredible one of the biggest selling business books of all-time. I think the biggest but I want to say one of the if it's three short I'll get killed if I say the. But I think it is the biggest selling business book. I mean, that's what I do. We got to win. We can win together. One of the things, vision. I've been saying, right, take the oil, take the oil, take the oil.We shouldn't have been there. Iraq, Iran, fighting, fighting, fighting. Their whole lives everyone they always fight, fight they love to fight. We want to rebuild our country, right? Fight, fight, fight. We build a gas station did you see the gas station? It cost $43 million and then it didn't work. OK, OK. And yet if we wanted to spend $2 in this country we don't have any money. If we want to build a school for his children we don't have any money. If we want to fix up our roads they're decrepit, our bridges are falling down. In China they're building bridges all over the place, OK. So I said take the oil and keep it.We shouldn't have been in Iraq, but take the oil. Because if you don't we've spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives, the wounded warriors, and we give some of that oil to the families of the people that have lost their kids. And we give money to wounded warriors. I tell you, they're the most incredible of all people. I deal with, I'll tell you I deal with them all the time. I deal with it and I see them and they have the biggest smile and they may be missing their legs, they may be missing an arm, they may be worse than that. And their, their strength is I think to me the strongest of all. I have never seen anything like it.But the few people if they were standing here most of these people become converted, they agree with me. They agree with me because what's not to agree with. What am I saying? I'm saying commonsense I'm saying a little business, I'm saying a lot of heart because I want to take care of people that can't. You know, there are gonna be people that can't afford anything. You can't let them die. We're Republicans, you can't let them die on the street. Somebody will say oh, Trump said something that's not Republican. He says he wants to help people that don't have any money.What are we gonna do let them die in the street? It's not so bad. It's not so much. We'll be able to do it. But we'll get great plans and everything else. But if you think of it what am I doing? I'm saying we're gonna fix our country. Why are liberals or why are Democrats opposed to that? I don't think they are. I really don't, now there are some bad people and it doesn't matter but I don't think they are. And, you know, very interestingly one of the polls said more people if I win and Hillary wins they say more people will come to the polls in the history of the country it will set a record.Just like if you think of it just like the 24 and the 23 million people set the record. They said and it just came out CNBC thing that and they say the people that come are gonna vote for Trump. They all said that, they said that the story. Check it out. And we're gonna beat Hillary. And I'll tell you the other thing. Yeah, I've got to be tough on the border and some of the Hispanics maybe won't like it but they love me and the ones that are here, thank you where oh, Hispanic, Hispanic. Where did I see that sign over here? Where did I see, I saw a great sign. I'm telling you, adios amigos make America great again.Look at that, I'm telling you, I'm telling you. And, you know, the African American vote so a poll came out recently the poll came out recently Trump gets 25 percent of the African American. For a Republican that's unheard of, it's unheard of. And one of these commentators who's like devastated because a Republican would normally get what five or six percent. What do you think, Steve? Like five or six percent. So I have a poll that said I mean, I don't think these pastors are gonna be standing up with too many other candidates, do you agree with that, Steve? You know, I don't think so. So I have a poll. 25 percent of the African Americans want Trump. And one of these commentators and they hate, by the way, they hate that I'm winning. They have such a hard time with the polls.I mean, the one just came out the Quinnipiac poll, right? And I'm killing everybody and I'll tell you Cruz and Rubio are in second place and they said they're sort of tied. And they said Rubio and Cruz are doing great. I said what about me? And I went up a lot, I went up as much as they did or more. And it's harder when you're high. And I'm beating them by like a lot and they talk about they, they didn't even mention my name until you got to the first, while Trump is winning the other people are doing very nicely. You know, it's unbelievable. So we're driving the media nuts, OK. We're driving them nuts.They don't know how to handle it and they're very dishonest. Many of them, I only say 70 percent but 70 percent are really dishonest. What's gonna happen is and what did happen so they mention the 25 percent and one of these talking heads said, you know, if Trump gets 25 percent of the African American vote this election is over he wins, he's over. You know that, it's true. And why wouldn't I? Think of it, Obama what has he done? What has he done? Think of this and then we're gonna do questions. Obama, think of it, Obama you African American youth 51 percent unemployment, right.Your guys our age they have an employment that's double or triple what other people have. What the hell has he done for the African Americans? He's done nothing, he's done nothing. I don't think he cares about them, I think he's done nothing. It's all talk, it's all words with this guy. He's an unbelievable divider. I thought he'd be a great cheerleader for the country, that's one thing I thought. I said he'll unify the country and he's really divided the country, he really has. And we're gonna unify the country, and we're gonna do amazing we're gonna set records with the African American vote.I mean, honestly for Steve and the group to come up here that was such an honor for me tonight. It was such an honor, such an honor and we appreciate it. So all of the things that I said are true and just to finish before we do some questions if you were with me two weeks ago I was much different. I was talking about China all the time and I was talking about trade and I'm telling you all the bad deals and that our companies are all leaving, which is true. And they're moving to Ireland and they're moving to other places and we have $2.5 trillion offshore and we can't bring it back because our tax laws are so bad.And by the way, my tax plan I'm cutting middle income families to the lowest level that they've been in years, because we have been destroying our middle class which built this country. And I'm cutting companies taxes and corporation taxes and small business taxes down to 15 percent. Right now it's the highest it's ever been, right now we're number one tax nation anywhere in the world, anywhere in the world. And I'm bringing it down to the not exactly the lowest, but it will soon I think we can maybe do that. But I'm bringing it down to one of the least taxed business nations in the world so the middle class is gonna be taken care of.We're seriously simplifying our code so you don't have to spend your money at H and R Block and spend a lot of the money that you're making doing this complicated code. And we're gonna do some things that are gonna be amazing. And we're going to have a dynamic economy, and this country is going to be rocking and rolling and it's gonna be something special. This country is going to be something, something so much more special. It's already special, I have to say, but it's gonna be much more special and it's already great but, I mean, we're talking about really great.16,000. The people at registration said we've never seen anything like this. You know, it's nice because with the kind of people I deal with if they find mistakes, so when you have 15 or 16,000 and you need five they're gonna have to find a lot of mistakes, right? No, I thank you very much. Do you have a question to ask? Do you want to make a statement? You did such an amazing job.Oh, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, so nice. OK let's go, have a question. Go ahead. Wherever you want, go ahead. OK, a young man come on, young guy.Oh, hey, that's a good question. Lift him up here. Bring him up, come on, come on. So cute, come on, come on up here, come on up. Come here. This is such a great question. Ready? Are you ready?Go ahead. Ask the question.Oh, that might be the best question I get tonight. I'll tell you what it's gonna be made of. It's gonna be made of hardened concrete and it's gonna be made out of rebar and steel. And, you know, it's so that's what I do, I mean, that's what I do. You ever see parking plank where they set plank and it goes 90 feet long? You know how long 90 feet? If you're 90 feet up you don't want to come down, you want to come down very gently. Did you ever see the walls they build now, they're this high and they drive trucks over them, right? They build a ramp and they take trucks with drugs and we get the drugs and they get the cash. Not good.There's not gonna be any trucks driving. So it's gonna be made out of concrete, rebar, rear is steel and we're gonna set them in nice heavy foundations. And one of the reasons the wall wasn't built because a lot of people like the wall, but they couldn't figure out how to do it. And this is hard to believe but true, hey was I right about New Jersey? Was I right? Do you see all right? Oh, there's another one I took such heat. And all of a sudden over the last couple days reports start coming out, you know, Trump is right.I saw it I get hundreds of calls and now even some of the mainstream has been saying it. So I'm very proud. How many people would have taken that abuse without saying oh, I'm sorry. OK, they all said apologize. I'm right, there's a lot of hatred going on. We need vigilance, we need that's where it started. We need vigilance. We can't let this happen. They can't blow up our buildings. They can't cut off our people's heads, they can't do it. Or other people's heads, but they can't do it. OK, let's have a question. Go ahead.Tone, tone.Famous words, tone.You're right.OK, let me just because Ross Perot who I haven't known much, I know his son he's a good guy. He made a big mistake. He quit then a week later or whatever he said oh I made a, and when he went back it was, it was over. But he was, you know, he had a certain style. And he, you know, I watched I studied it very closely and number one, it's really better to run as a Republican. I will tell you that and I want to run as a Republican. And I'm leading by so much.The question was asked before would you ever run as an Independent? You know, I don't want to do that. I just want to run and win as a Republican. We're there, we're this close. We're gonna probably run against a woman who can't win. Her whole life has been corrupt. It's been corrupt. She's not gonna win. So in the first 100 days we're gonna knock the hell out of Obamacare. We're gonna un-sign, you know, the great thing about executive orders. I don't have to go back to Congress. I just sit down and I will be un-signing many, maybe not all maybe there are a couple of good ones. I don't know. I doubt it.But we're gonna be un-signing a lot of executive orders, especially his order that basically lets anybody they want just pour into our country. That's gonna end, OK, all right. And just to add we're gonna start immediately working on Social Security, immediately working on Medicare so that we really make it strong. We're gonna bring, we're gonna bring great things back into this country. You're gonna be so proud of me. He's got that Trump shirt. You're gonna be so proud of me, I appreciate it. You'll be very happy. OK. Go ahead, how about OK, go ahead, ma'am.Sure. Well, I love Israel and Israel is our real strong support if you look at what's going on. And I'll tell you what, and I will say it here my people say oh, don't say it. But very soon I'm going to Israel and I'll be meeting with Bibi Netanyahu who's a great guy. And I actually he asked me to make a commercial during his election run. I made a commercial. I said, meaning I said nice things about him. He's a good man, he's worked very hard, he has absolutely no support from President Obama, absolutely none. So I will tell you I am very, very, very pro-Israel, OK. OK. OK, question. How about the young man in the green shirt? Go ahead. Young strong guy.Are you a veteran?Wait a minute, you're a veteran? The guy looks like he's 20-years-old. Wow.But you're in good shape?Did you have any problems or difficulties?All right, good. So you're a very healthy vet. And we have plenty of healthy vets, too. We have a lot of vets I don't want to mess around with them, right? OK so go ahead.Right.OK. So I put in a big plan on the vets and people are loving it. And as you know about three months ago on a Wednesday they announced that in the history of the Veteran's Administration which is very corrupt, extremely corrupt, and you have some great doctors in there by the way. I mean, I'm gonna give the good and the bad but you have administrators that are a disgrace and the waiting times and the problems. And people are waiting five days, six days in a waiting room to get in. And in the history of the VA it's the longest you saw that three months ago, it was the longest wait in the history of the VA. That's over.And I put in a plan that's much more complex than this, but basically we have doctors that aren't doing well because of Obamacare, we have a lot of people that aren't doing. I have a friend who's a doctor, he's gonna be quitting he's gonna be like you he's gonna retire out at a young age. But he's gonna be retired and he said I have more accountants than I have nurses. He said it's so complicated, it's so horrible. The paperwork is so terrible I don't feel like I'm a doctor anymore.So we have doctors that have plenty of open time. We have private and public hospitals all over the place that aren't doing well. And we're gonna let those vets instead of standing in line and dying, by the way. You saw the numbers, people die waiting to see a doctor. They're dying. Hundreds of thousands, I couldn't believe it. The numbers are incredible. You know, you think one, two but the numbers are incredible. Thousands of men and women waiting for a doctor, maybe a simple procedure, maybe a pill. They end up dying so we're not gonna have that anymore.The vets remember they're our greatest people. They're our greatest people. I wouldn't be here, most of these people wouldn't even be here. So what we're, it's true come on for the vets. It's true, it's true. So we're having a simple plan. You have hospitals across the street that are, they're looking for business, right? Look at her. You're not a vet, what do you do?No, what do you do?OK, one second. So you have hospitals across the street you have doctors right, you're gonna get out of there you're gonna see the doctor, see the hospital we're gonna pay for the bill, it's much cheaper and everyone is gonna be happy. It's so much cheaper. So we're gonna use that hospital that's looking for some business. We're gonna use, it could be private, it could be public.We're gonna use doctors that are looking for business. We're gonna pay the bill, it's gonna go quickly and believe it or not it's gonna be much, much cheaper than what we're doing right now. And what we're doing right now is insulting. OK? OK. Go ahead, you're a designer? Oh. I didn't think you were a vet, you didn't look like a vet.Go ahead.Oh, thank you so much. Thank you. How nice, how nice is that. Thank you darling that's so nice.That's great. Come on up, get her up here. She's so nice, so beautiful. Come on, get up here. You work it out. Come on, get up here. So nice. What a nice question. But you know what, what she said is so important. Do you remember the old days when some of us were young and some of us weren't' even born when I'm talking about, but we used to have a sticker made in the USA.That meant quality, right? And if it said made in Japan it was like no good, it was like terrible. Now it's reversed. You don't have it anymore. We had those stickers made in the USA and that meant super, super quality. I just want her up, I thought she was so fantastic. Come on over. Believe me, if I didn't like the question, folks, she wouldn't be up here. She wouldn't be up here. So nice. Don't worry about that, don't worry. Come on up, look at her she's got to work to get up here. These, you know, Secret Service when you hit number one all of a sudden you have a lot of protection. Nobody can get up, come on up here. Look at this. Say something come here. What's your name?Thank you so much.You're great. Thank you. You know, it's a great statement and it's a great question. Because honestly you don't see it anymore, you don't see it anymore. We're gonna be so proud to have that sticker and let's remember that question. That's a very important question, statement. Made in the USA was so important and was such a sign of quality. You don't even see, first of all, we don't make that much anymore. It's not like it was. Think of it, think of this. I go to Los Angeles recently, I saw ships the biggest ships you've ever seen with cars coming in from Japan.Pouring out, they're pouring like going 30 miles an hour, pouring out of these ships. These men, we send them practically nothing. It's a one sided deal. We can't have that. And speaking of USA when was the last time you saw a Chevrolet in the middle of Tokyo? I'll bet you they don't have one, right? We make good cars, we make great cars and now especially we're doing great. It's got to be fair. OK. Let's have a good question. How about this guy over here with the good head of hair? This guy? Go ahead. OK.Thank you.OK.OK. Putin, Putin it's a very fair question. Putin cannot stand Obama like a lot of people. What else, what else is new? And, you know, recently I was on 60 Minutes. They interviewed Putin separately, they interviewed me. We got very high ratings, so I feel he's my stable mate, all right. Putin, and I said this a couple of months ago when he started bombing. I said let him bomb, let him bomb. The problem our country has is we don't even know who we're fighting. We want to fight Assad, bad guy but we want to fight Assad for rebels that we don't even know.Now if we fight Assad we're fighting Russia, we're fighting other countries. Maybe we end up in World War III who the hell know what happens, right? But Assad is bad, but the rebels could be ISIS. We have no idea. A general told me we have no idea who they are. We want to give them billions and billions and what's gonna happen. Let's say they take over Syria. What the hell, we don't know what's gonna, it's gonna be, it's gonna be turmoil. We've got to fight ISIS. And I love that Russia is dropping bombs all over ISIS. I love it. I love it. OK? I mean, we have a President he doesn't even know who to fight. How about this?Two weeks ago he says we're sending 50 men and maybe women, I don't know. I'm surprised he's not more specific. He should have been more specific. But we're sending 50 men, 50 men over to Syria, Iraq I don't think he even knows where they're going. Now why does he have to talk? Why does he have to say it? Why does he have to stand up and say we're sending 50? Those people have a these are our finest, these are our greatest soldiers, right? Why do they, why do we have to do that? Why does have to open his mouth? Why can't he send them and be quiet? OK. Now he just announced that they're sending another small group over today or yesterday.They just announced we are sending more soldier. These guys, small numbers. Frankly I think the numbers are so small that if you're gonna do it do it, OK, but the numbers are so small I don't even think it's a good PR move frankly. But we're sending men over to fight. Now the enemy is not stupid, they are not the JV, and they are not contained. Do we agree? They are looking for these men and women. They are looking for them. What the hell does he have to say it for? You know, I used the word unpredictable. We don't have any unpredictability anymore. General MacArthur he wouldn't talk. General George Patton, first of all he wouldn't even be there.They would have thrown him out his first year because he was a vicious violent guy who used foul language, but he was one of our great generals, General George Patton. He was brutal, he couldn't be a general. He couldn't be a general today because he was too, he was too crude. He was too, but he was a genius and his men loved him and his men fought for him. But he couldn't be a general. And I watch our generals that are on television, these guys are on television all the time. I don't want my generals on television. I don't want the enemy watching my, one little word and you're giving something up.So I did a deal recently it was interesting and it was a great success. And they called up my opponent because that's what it was and he couldn't stand me I mean, oh, did I do a number on this guy. And he couldn't stand me, but he said something that was very interesting. It was honest. He told the reporter Mr. Trump was really tough because he was so damn unpredictable. We couldn't figure out, he was so unpredictable. That's why I won. And I didn't know was he being nice to me or not? I said what does that mean? He said we couldn't figure you out. I said thank you, because I thought it was a compliment but I had to be sure, OK.But we have no unpredictability. We have to get smart and we're gonna get smart. And, you know, one of the things and I'm gonna leave it at that, but one of the things, one of the things that I, did you have a question? I have to say the pastor has a question. I have to, I have to take care of my pastor. But wait one second though. One of the things that you're gonna say when you leave this room this is such an amazing thing that's happening. You're gonna say we were here at a time that really was important because people have come together.But you have to go out and vote because, you know, with all of the talk about this group, that group, that group if Romney could have inspired, he failed, I mean, he failed. Because McCain couldn't have won the first time because it was such a mess, but Romney the second time should have been an easy victory. And Obama was on say what you want about Obama, he was on Letterman, he was on Leno, he was all over the place, OK. And I would call up their campaign because I'm backing the guy and I'm saying when are you gonna get on television to Romney and his people. Well, we don't think we're, I said just get on television. He's killing you, he's on every night, he was on Letterman. He was on every show, Leno. And Romney didn't do it so he failed. He let us down.But let me tell you something. If the people in this room who didn't vote and if all of the other people that would have never have voted for Obama but if they had the inventive to get up and go vote he would have won. I'll tell you Romney would have won the election. But they weren't, they weren't inspired. But we have to remember that. And I think hopefully I inspire look I have the biggest crowds that anyone has ever seen. But we have to remember that. OK, now I'm gonna do something that's really not smart. I always like to end on a high note. We're on a high note, right? Really high.I could own say make American great again, you're all gonna go crazy, I leave and I go back home, right? And unlike Hillary I don't go to sleep, I think about things, right. Hillary goes to sleep and then you don't see her for five days and she wakes up and she comes does another event. And Elton John would always say, and I love Elton John. Elton John is a good guy. So Elton John would say you always want to finish with a big bang, and when they do the encore do you ever see where he finishes great and then they say more, more the place has gone crazy and they go out there do one song, two songs, three songs.Now people are starting to say this is getting boring. Four songs, and after the fourth or fifth song it's like oh, let's go home and people walk. We're at a high. The problem I have is my pastor wants to ask me a question. How can I turn him down? Will you do me a favor, Pastor? Will you make it a nice question so I don't leave here in a low not? OK, go ahead.Yes?Oh.Yeah.Right.It's true. By the way, it's true.It's a tremendous problem.Yeah, no it's a tremendous problem.Yeah, that's true.So true, by the way.I would do that. You know, I went to...School in, I went to the Wharton School of Finance in Philadelphia. I know Philadelphia well. He is a highly respected great man in Philadelphia and the answer is yes. OK? All right? Yes. I love it. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you all. You are spectacular people. Doing this is actually easy. Getting here wasn't so easy, but there's such love in this room. We are going to make America great again, better than ever before. I love you, I love you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you everybody.This is really beautiful, fantastic. What a crowd. What a crowd. Well, I want to thank everybody. You know, we have a big night tomorrow night. Has anybody, like, thinking about it? It's going be good.We've had so many good things happen over the last five-month period, it's been actually amazing. The people of this country are absolutely incredible people and I am honored to be with you tonight. It's like this all over the place.We're going to take our country back, folks. We're going to take it back. We're taking our country back. It's gone on too long, too many mistakes, too many stupid people telling us what we're supposed to be doing. We're going to be taking it back and we're taking it back soon.We can't put up with it any longer. You see what happens. The Iran deal, incompetent. Anything you look, now I hear Bergdahl, no jail time for Bergdahl. I mean, no jail time.We have a man there who left. He's a traitor. He left. Five people killed looking for him. And what happens? Like, for years, he's been under the same thing, and I hear there's not going to be jail time. It's incredible.You know, 50 years ago, what would happen? Boom. Twenty-five years ago, probably the same thing, but it would have taken longer. Ten years ago, jail time. Five years ago, a couple of years. Now, he's going to get nothing. He's going to get nothing.Well, I'll tell you what, I'm just thinking of it now for the first time. If I get in, we will review his case, I promise you. And you know what? Statute of limitations will be reviewing Hillary Clinton's case, too. I can tell you. We will review that.You know, before I go too far, I've made some great friends and, you know, I announced and I talked about illegal immigration. There was a huge firestorm, everyone went crazy, oh, illegal immigration, it wasn't even something that people are going to talk about.And then all of a sudden they started saying, you know, maybe Trump is right. But I went through two weeks, it was unbelievable. I mean, it was really incredible. I didn't mind it. You know, it's like, quote life, because I'm telling the truth. I don't mind when you're saying something that's correct and this country needs to get away from political correctness. It's killing us. It's killing us. It is absolutely killing us.And I announced all about -- we talked about what's happening at the border, we talked about the illegals pouring in. And all of a sudden people started seeing lots of crime and they started really seeing it to lose focus because it was like a magnifying glass. We had beautiful Kate in San Francisco who was killed and shot five times and then we had so many others.We had a woman a few weeks ago in California raped, sodomized, 66- year-old veteran, raped, sodomized and killed by an illegal immigrant. We have much, much crime, so much all over the place.And a friend of mine, I see him backstage with a group from remembrance families. You know, remembrance, right? These are people whose families have been devastated by people that weren't supposed to be in our country.People that came here, were forced here by countries that are smarter and I want to just bring the friends of mine and in particular, somebody has really gotten to know well and he's a special man.Could the remembered families come up? And this is Jamiel. Jamiel Shaw. Come on up and get the families up. Come on up. Come on up. I saw him back. We're going to say hello and I said, come on up and say a few words. These are incredible people.These are amazing people. They're amazing families. What they're going through, you cannot imagine. For no reason whatsoever, just incompetent people.They allow these people to come into our country. It's a disgrace. It's a disgrace. OK. So today, we had a lot of news and it was all good. It never gets reported properly by these people back here. Look at all those press.But you know, I've learned two things, more than anything else. How smart the people are and how bad and dishonest the press is because it is really dishonest. It is really, really dishonest.So we had a lot of polls coming out today. And they were really good.That's right. So we had the Monmouth poll, very highly respected. Trump, 41. Cruz, 14. And everyone else much lower, I mean, somewhere. So I heard today when they announced the poll, 41 to 14, and I like Cruz. Good guy. But I heard, here's how they announced, Cruz surging.So when I heard, this was on television, Cruz surging. So I said, oh, I don't know, that sounds bad to me. "Coming up, Cruz surging." Then they said the Monmouth poll was just done, Cruz is surging. Trump 41, Cruz 14. I said, wait a minute, what's going on?I'll tell you what, they are the most dishonest people. Then, you know about CNN. CNN came out just recently, 36 to 16. Graves poll, highly respected, 42 to 16 to 12 to 11.So "Des Moines Register" was 21-31. All of a sudden, it was like the biggest story I've ever seen OK? That was just Iowa. Don't worry about it. Iowa, we love Iowa but I think we're doing great in Iowa, and I expect to win Iowa. We think we're going to do great in Iowa. I get by far the biggest crowds.So then we had a CNN poll. So CNN today was talking about a poll that wasn't theirs. And I kept saying, why don't they talk about a poll that's theirs?So they just did this poll, it's a new poll. CNN and Iowa, Trump 33, Cruz 20 and then everyone else much lower. So we actually sent a couple of emails, started to tweet a little bit. You know, the Twitter is great when you have between 5 and 10 and 13 -- we have so many people. We have millions.So we started to tweet. We said, why is CNN not playing their poll? It's their poll. So if anybody has an idea, please let me know before the evening ends.Then we had a Fox News poll, which was a pretty good poll. It was pretty much tied. Then we have Quinnipiac. And Quinnipiac was 28 Trump, 27 Cruz. In other words, we won.They call it was tie. They say it was tie. OK. I mean, so what? You know the bottom line? I think we're going to win Iowa. I think we're going to win New Hampshire big. I think that, frankly as we win Iowa...You know, I miss -- thank you. We have to get out and vote. Remember that folks. No matter what's going on in your life, if you're feeling miserable, if you're depressed, if you're down, if you're -- whatever the hell, you lost your job, like everybody else is losing their job, you have to get out and you have to vote because, you know, I was watching today television. They say, Well, if Trump -- we get by far the biggest crowds. Like, it's not even a contest. And they said, Well, if those people actually go out and vote -- but you know, the dishonest press back there, they say, But I don't think they will.I think they will. But they said -- they said no. They said, If they actually go out and vote, the people that show up, like, in Iowa, where we had massive -- the same thing -- Virginia, Dallas, Oklahoma, South Carolina, North Carolina -- we have these massive rallies. And it's incredible. And they said, Well, if they vote, Trump wins. They actually said that.Ba-ba-boey.And we have to get out. We have to get out. We have to vote. OK.So you know, we've had some amazing news. I've missed this. You know, for, like, a week-and-a-half, we've sort of been in limbo, right? All I could do is tweet. It was driving me crazy because there were no, like, events or anything planned. But we all had a good Christmas, right?Good. Merry Christmas. We say merry Christmas. Other people won't say merry Christmas. They'll say, Oh, happy holiday. Happy holiday. Merry Christmas, folks.Merry Christmas. The polls have been fantastic. You've seen the polls that just came out, and today one came out, Rasmussen, where I'm tied with Hillary. But don't worry. That's going to end.We're going to be -- we're going to be far ahead. And Fox came out a couple of weeks ago and we were leading. And another one came out, we were leading. We're doing very well.We haven't started on her! You know, she says, Oh, we'd love to run against Trump. It's her worst nightmare.These people -- these people back here, they said, Well, the Hillary campaign said they'd love to run. Yes. She wants to run against me instead of somebody else.I guarantee you -- you know, and I explained -- I tried to explain to Chuck Todd and all these guys. You don't understand, Chuck. When they say they want to run against Trump, that means they don't want to run against Trump. They don't understand.You know they report -- yes. But then tonight, somebody reported that they are absolutely going crazy and they are devastated over what Trump is saying!Now we're getting back to the basics, OK? Look at what's happened with the Republicans. Every single person that's gone after me is gone. They're gone. They're gone!With all the millions that we're spending and -- I mean, they're spending, I guess -- so you saw the one where I've spent essentially nothing and Bush has spent $59 million. He's down toward the bottom with 3 percent or 2 percent of something. And we have -- we actually had a poll come out 42 percent. We had 39 percent. Look at these polls. It's crazy. We have -- we have numbers.We have to go through them, right, go through them for a second. We have to.You know, they always say, Why do you go through the polls? Because I'm winning! Honestly, if I wasn't -- I have to be honest, if I wasn't, I wouldn't be talking about them, I'm telling you. And the other candidates -- He always talks about the polls, we don't. Well, they shouldn't because they're not winning!So we have a lot of good ones -- CNN, 36 percent. Think of it. Cruz is 16, Carson's 14, Rubio's 12, Christie's 4, Bush is 3 percent. After -- how about this, you spend $59 million and you're 3!But you know what's impressive is the economy -- Trump is 55 percent.On the budget, Trump is 51 percent. How about this? And remember, that's out of 15 people. You know, it was 17, now it's 15, now it's dropped, 14 -- it's going down! It's going to go down quickly.By the way, one thing I have to tell you. New Hampshire will always maintain its place if I win, OK? Just so you understand. You know there's a big movement...There's a big movement to put you at the back of the pack or the middle of the pack so it would no longer be the same thing. You'll never see me again, but you will see me because I have so many friends. You'll never see a lot of people again.But there's a big movement to put New Hampshire way back. I don't know why. I don't know, is it retribution? Is it they don't want it? They don't like it? Because you have a lot of power. I mean, you have a lot of power and...We could -- yes, they have problems. I mean, they have a heroin problem that's really incredible. I mean, I hear so much about that from the people up here. And you know, we're going to wall. We're going to have a real border.That whole heroin thing -- I'll tell you what. We got to get it under control. But I hear more about it from here than I do anyone else. You don't think of it in terms of New Hampshire, but whenever I'm up here, I hear more about it here. And we've got to solve the problem and we got to help the people that are hooked because they get hooked and it's not easy.But on the budget, I'm 51 percent. That's 51 percent with 14, and actually, when they did this, 15 people. See, 51 percent. I'd be happy if I had 51 percent with two people, right? OK? On illegal immigration -- listen to this -- 48 percent because they know I'm not going to play games.I saw one of the people that I'm running against the other day. They came up and they said, We're going to build a wall. First time he said that! My wife was listening. She said, Darling, he's copying you. He said the exact same words. He said, It's going to be a big wall. It's going to be a great wall. And he said the same words! Listen to it. I listened to it. I said, What are we doing here? The guy is copying.You know, if you remember, when I started, when I started this whole dialogue and we announced on June 16th at Trump Tower, and I said illegal immigration and we're going to stop it. Everybody said, Oh -- and I went through and the papers and I was getting absolutely -- Rush Limbaugh, who's, like, a great guy, said he's never seen anybody receive so much incoming. I was getting -- these guys were killing me!This is so -- so incredible.No matter where we go, it's amazing. We go to Dallas. We go to Oklahoma. We go all over. We went to, the other night, Iowa -- packed. Every place -- New Hampshire, packed. Every place we go to, it's like this. It's amazing. And just great, great people.And they actually had to tell over 3,000 people, "go home." We'll come back. We'll do another one. But they had to go home. Would you like to leave and we'll let them come in? No?I don't think so, but we -- they turned away a lot of people, which is too bad, actually. So maybe next time. I don't know. I think this is the largest room. I know it's a record for the room.You know, it has to be a record because every inch of the room is taken with people, and they're standing. They're not sitting. So that's great. I love -- we love setting records. We want the country to set records, right?So, you know, I -- I do this, and I love to do it. And I talk about our success because that's ultimately what it's all about. I think we're going to do fantastically well in Iowa. I really think we're going to do great there. And I could say, "Oh, gee, if we came in the top four of five." I'm not -- I'm looking to win everything. We want to run the table. We want to run it, because that sends a signal.And, you know, we've been a little bit -- we had to respond to Hillary. She came out with that -- she came out -- remember, she wrote -- she said, "He's got a -- he's demonstrated a penchant " -- I demonstrated -- "a penchant for sexism." Can you believe it? Me? Nobody respects women more than Donald Trump. That I can tell you.And, you know, when she said that, I had no choice, because I didn't start it. I had no choice. And I did have to mention her husband's situation. OK?And that is now the biggest story on television by a factor of 10. So, we have to do it. You can't let people push you around. You can't let people tell lies. You can't do it.And they said all of these people that are going to come in new, that never vote -- they never vote, they don't care -- they're going to mostly -- I'll tell you what, they're going to vote for Trump. That's why they're coming in, because they're so fed up with the system -- this corrupt, horrible system. They're fed up with it and they're fed up with those guys back there, the media.They are the worst.No, no, no. They're fed up. They're fed up with the media. I mean, I've got -- and you know, not all bad, but there's so much dishonesty in the media. And I like to call it out. And one of the things that's really been amazing to me, and such -- it's been so beautiful to watch -- the level of genius in the public. They get it, you know? They really get it. They want to marginalize us, they want to do all of this and they want to make everybody look like, "Oh, gee."The level of genius -- they fully understand. They know they're crooked, they know they're dishonest and they really -- otherwise, who gets worse publicity than me?And yet, I see a poll at 42 percent. And you know, you're talking about 15, 16 people, started with 17. How are you? Started with 17 people. And you know, I'd be happy with 42 if we had three, OK? Not thrilled, I'd like to be that -- over that 50 mark, but I think we're doing really well.And you know, it's interesting, but the debates -- OK. So the debates -- thank -- I love you too, darling.I love you. I do. I love you. I love every -- you know what? The rooms, no matter where, whether it's stadiums or big ballrooms like this one, it's amazing, and there's love in the room. And I told -- the other night, I said and a friend of mine, very, very successful guy who I would love to have negotiating against China. That's what we need, not these hacks that we have.No, no. I have guys...Carl Icahn endorsed me. Great business man. We have -- I have great, great business people that want to be involved. And we're going to use -- we have the best. We have the best in the world. We don't use them. We use political hacks, we use special interest people that really don't care about the country, they care about their deals.This is going to change so fast. You know, last year, $500 billion trade deficit with China. Think about it. You know what $500 billion is? You do -- you do $100 bills, you would fill the room to the ceiling, $500 billion deficit -- trade deficit with China. What are we? Are we -- yes, I guess the answer is certainly let's not blame us.Our leaders are stupid and -- and/or -- you have to say and/or they have deals, because what's happened is all of this money is being given to them by special interests, by all of these people, including lobbyists, and these lobbyists make our leaders do -- our leaders, can you believe our leaders? This is what -- but they make the leaders of our country do things that they don't even want to do because they've given them tens and tens and tens of millions of dollars.I look at this guy Jeb Bush. He spent $59 million on his campaign and he is down in the grave. He is nowhere. No, no. Think of it. It's got to be much more than that. It was actually $59 million a while ago. Every time I turn on an add, I see an ad about Trump. I mean, it's not that bad an ad either. It's like -- you know.If you're going to do an ad, do an ad. But he's a low-energy person. Let's face it. We don't need low-energy. We need lots of energy.But he spent -- think of it. Think of it. He spent $59 million. I spent nothing, right? Nothing.Now, I'm going to be spending. You probably saw I'm going to spend -- now, we're going to start spending a lot of money because I don't want to take any chances. You know, it's -- I love getting up -- and for the last couple of months, I have been leading from practically the time I announced, right? And for the last -- and leading a lot. I'm going to go over that because I go over polls. I love polls. I love polls.Now, when they -- if they turn negative, I don't like them.And I promise, if they turn negative, I'm not going to be talking about them. In fact, I get criticized all the time. You're always talking about your polls. One of these guys just got two. He's at two. I'm at 42. And one of these guys who's at two said, "He always talks about his polls and I don't." I wouldn't either if I had two, I swear I wouldn't.I wouldn't. I wouldn't do it at all. But you know, I love to tell the story where I have spent nothing and Bush has spent $59 million, but much higher than that. That's just -- you know, because I see since then -- I mean, just -- you can't turn on this television without these commercials. And Fox -- every two minutes it's a commercial on Trump.You know what he did? It's false advertising. So I killed him in the debate. According to Reuters, according to everybody, Drudge, who's an amazing guy, by the way. If you don't know Drudge -- Matt Drudge. Right? He's a great guy. But Drudge, 46 percent. At 46 percent, you have 15 people. Now, if you noticed a couple have dropped out. A couple or more.But 15, 16 people -- 46 percent. Time magazine, 49 percent. Think of it. Slate, 51 percent. U.S. News and World Report -- 69 percent said I won the debate. I won the debate, right?PBS, Public Broadcasting System -- 69 percent said Trump won.No, you know, it is amazing. We have Washington Times at 62 percent. CBS, 59 percent. Fox, 62 percent -- Fox Las Vegas, 62 percent. So, they all say -- then they go back home, after the debate. I like to see how did I do? Did I look good? Looking good is very important, right? Sometimes, it is not as much like what you say, it's how did you look?Oh, I looked good, didn't sound too good, but that is OK. You wonder if that is a good trait. But I go home, and I watch, and the pundits will say -- and they can't totally kill me, because we know it is happening, we know what's happening -- well, Mr. Trump was OK tonight. He was -- I won every single online poll, I won.And then, here's Bush. So, Bush does an ad. And he takes me -- and he was talking about, you know, something, and manage -- and then I killed him. I mean, he -- by the way, I met 69 percent, he is at 1 percent, he got. He came in last.He takes the ad -- and I shouldn't even talk about him. He's down to two or three -- I -- but it bothers me when I see a guy spending, you know, $60 million on ads against me, a lot of it, right? I say, why is he doing this? Doesn't he have something better, he should go home.Just relax. You know, honestly, he should go home and relax. He shouldn't be wasting his time. But it does. I say, why is this guy spending all this money? Now he is spending it actually against a couple of other guys, they were also very weak and somewhere -- but here is my ad. So, he made a statement, and after that, his spin people said, oh, he was great. He took on Trump, he took on Trump. I'm standing here, he's over here. Took on Trump, he made a statement that was written by his pollster. You know? So, he would remember it.He said, "Mr. Trump, why don't you this?" I said, OK. Then I gave him an answer. I said, "Jeb, I'm at 42, you are at 2. Right? It is a simple answer. You started off here, right next to me, and then you were there, then you were there, by the next time, you are going to be off the stage. Right?No, no, it's true. And then -- and then -- and that was it. And so I responded. So, he asked me a question, question was fine. You know, professionally written. So, he asked me a question, good. I give him an answer, I blow him away. Right. Everyone says Trump won the debate. Everybody. And hat is it. So, the ad is him asking the question and I'm standing there like this, because I haven't -- in fact, you see in one of them, I'm just about ready to open my mouth.But he doesn't let me respond. That is almost false advertising, isn't it? You know? So, I mentioned it, Hillary is a disaster. I mean, Hillary.Hillary is controlled by her money. So is Jeb. So is -- by the way, I'm the only one self-funding my campaign. I'm self-funding.You know, one of the things that makes me happy. I heard one of my commentators this morning, said, "you know, I've been watching this stuff for 50 years and I've never seen anything like what has happened with Trump. One of them actually said -- one of them -- I'm special. You're special. I like you. I'm special.Isn't that nice? That's a very -- every once in a while, somebody can say something that hits you. Where are you? Who said that? Wow. So nice. Thank you. That is a nice one. That's like, you know, very once in a while, there is a statement that is either nice or brutal. I think low-energy was a brutal statement, right?Low-energy can be applied to Hillary. I just don't like to use the same thing twice on one of my enemies. Right? Because I consider them enemies. We view this as war. Don't we view this as war? It's war.It's war. And so, you don't like to use it. I hate to give it up. What?Oh, we are going to help your daughter. We are going to help the country, that's called helping the daughter. We are going to help your country. So, here is the story. So, we are in a situation where we have incompetent leadership, where our trade deals are killing us, our military is not prepared. General Odierno when he left, just recently, he said that we are less prepared than at any time that he can remember. And I think he went back tot he beginning, but let's say second World War. OK? That's enough.And we should be very prepared now, because the world hates us. She has done a terrible job as secretary of State. Think of it. Putin comes out, he said, Donald Trump is brilliant, he is doing an amazing job, and he is leading the pack. OK, that's nice.And she and my opponents -- oh, isn't it terrible that Putin said -- wouldn't it be nice if we could get along with the world? Wouldn't it be? Seriously. No, no, wouldn't it be nice?I mean, they want me to refute his statement. How dare you say I'm brilliant? How dare -- that's -- who's going to do that? And by the way, if he said it about anyone of them, they would have been very happy.But the point is, we have to get along. The world has blown up around Barack Obama.Now, I don't know if you saw his recent release. They were talking about the Department of State, State Department, and they said very strongly, you know, the things that they've done. Well, they couldn't find it because what have they done that's good? And they said bringing peace to Syria. Did you see that?So instead of saying they made a mistake -- call it a typo, they made a mistake -- they're trying to justify it. Well, we meant we're working on it. Can you believe -- bringing peace to Syria. The world is blowing up, the migration in Syria -- they say one of their achievements for the year is bringing peace to Syria, and the whole world's talking about it. It's -- the level of stupidity is incredible. I'm telling you. I used to use the word incompetent, now I just call them stupid.I went to an Ivy League school, I'm very highly educated. I know words, I had the best words. I have -- but there's no better word than stupid.Right? There is none. There is none.There's no -- there's no -- there's no word like that. So we are going to turn things around. But -- and if we have Hillary -- I've got to tell you. I just saw where for the last week she's been hitting me really hard with the women card, OK? Really hard. And I had to say OK, that's enough, that's enough. And we did a strong number. She's not going to win. Any by the way, I love the concept -- I love, love, love having a woman president. Can't be her. She's horrible. She's horrible.And you know really don't -- I'll tell you who does not like -- yeah, we'll get Ivanka. Good. Let's do Ivanka.But I'll tell you who doesn't like Hillary are women. Women don't like Hillary.I see it all the time. And always so theatrical; Mr. Trump said this and that and this. And you just -- I actually -- I shouldn't do it. I just have to turn off the television so many times. She just gives me a headache.But you know -- although I think last night I gave her a big headache.I can imagine -- I can imagine those discussions. But you have to hit back hard, and you can't let them push you around. And today, she gave a speech and she never even mentioned my name. You know, in the debate I was mentioned nine times, I mean everything. All of them. But her. I was mentioned nine times, none of the other candidates were mentioned. And then she came out with the sexism, which is so nonsense. And -- but she's playing that card. And then I had to hit her back, so I hit her back and I talked about her husband and the abuse of women and the tremendous abuse -- no, it's tremendous abuse.I mean, you look at it, it's tremendous abuse. And I talked about that. And now today, the television is going crazy, and she gets up, makes a speech and doesn't even mention anything about me with sexism or anything else. I wonder why -- I wonder why.And remember this; it's really important. A poll just came out where we're tied, another one came out a couple of weeks ago, Fox, where I'm leading by four or five points against her individually. We're doing great. I haven't even focused on her yet.Look at the people I've focused on. I don't want to really knock them, I don't want to mention their names. But, you know, of those people that are all gone, they were all people that attacked me. Wouldn't it be nice if our country could have that same thing? You attack and they're, boom, gone. And if we could do it verbally ---- you know, if we could do it verbally that's even better, right? You know, who wants to use our military? By the way, we are going to build the strongest, the best, the most powerful military ever. Ever. Ever.And we're going to take care of our vets, we're going to take care of our vets ---- because they are being treated horribly. But we're going to build the strongest, most powerful military and ---- let me just tell you -- let me just tell you a little secret. It's the cheapest thing we can do. We're never going to have to use it. I don't think we're going to have to use it. Don't forget they talk about my tone. I remember when Jeb and Hillary the same day -- Mr. Trump's tone is not nice. They're chopping off Christians' heads in Syria and other places and they want me to have a nice tone. I'm supposed to be, oh, isn't life wonderful, OK?Look, we've got to be tough, we've got to be smart, we've got to have heart too. We've got to have heart, we've got to take care of people. We've got to fix our health care program. This Obamacare is a disaster. You people know.You people know. Obamacare is a total catastrophe. It's going to be repealed and replaced. It will die in '17 anyway. I don't know if you heard what's happening. But it's so bad, all the people that they didn't think were signing up are signing up.And the other people that are really paying for it are not signing up. And your rates are going up 25 percent, 35 percent, 45 percent. You're deductibles are so high that unless you get hit by a tractor, you're never going to be able to use your deductible. You're never going to be able to use it. So Obamacare is a disaster. We are going to repeal it, we are going to replace it.There are so many great things we can do on health care. So many good things.And it will cost you much less money, and it will be great. I mean, you are signing in programs, things that you will never, ever use, You know that. And you are paying for it. And you will never ever use them. So we will get that straightened out. We are going to straighten a lot of things. We are going to straighten out Common Core. Common Core is dead. It's going to be dead.When I look at parents and I see local parents in Iowa and New Hampshire and South Carolina, I went to a school and I saw the parents, they love their children. They want that -- they want education. They love -- they don't care about money, they don't care about anything. They love their children and it's local.And they get together and they do wonderful programs. They are smart people as opposed to getting it done by bureaucrats that are getting big, fat checks in Washington. I mean, we have such talent in this country and we don't use it. So, Obamacare, dead. Common core, gone. We are going to get rid of it. Department of Education, we are going to get rid of it.We are bringing education to a local level. One thing on education. So, in the world, we are ranked number 28. There are third world countries that are ranked better than us in education and many other things. And yet, per pupil, we are number 1, by far -- there is nobody close. Number two isn't even close.So we spend more money for pupil than any country in the world and we are ranked number 28 which is way down at the bottom, essentially. I mean, it's -- can you imagine we are ranked number 28 and we are number 1? And that's what I do like saying about my campaign, I spent less money than anybody else and I have the best results.I'm number one by a lot and I spent no money. I mean, my plane cost me some money, but I spent no ads. Took a little radio ad in Iowa. But I didn't do that -- I took -- I think the station is so lovely if you want to know the truth. But I spent essentially no money.And then you have all these other guys spending vast -- and they like the way the United States is run. Now, why would we put a guy like Jeb, like some of the others. It's not only Jeb Bush. They spend money. I see Rubio on the ads all day long.You know, the black background. He's got like a black thing. He should have put something like that behind him, right? Right there, the flag.No, no. And I like him. I think he is a nice guy. But I see these ads with the backdrop and it is just somber. It's not -- I don't think it's good. So, think of it. I spent no money and I'm number one. Others spent -- they will have spent hundreds of millions of dollars and they are not even in the race. That's what we need for our country. What? OK. I've got 15,000, I don't know what the hell he means by that but that's OK. So, but I think he's a fan. I don't think he's a -- are you a protester? No. OK. No body likes Trump. OK. He's not a protester. I love you.You know, the only time -- don't worry about it. The only time the cameras focus on the crowd is when we have a protester. Cause I always have -- like, look at this room, packed. I always have the biggest crowds.And I go home and my wife said were there many people? I watched you on television tonight. I said, I had 20,000 people. She said, they didn't show it. They have it right on your face. So I have 20,000 people. I have 20,000 in Oklahoma, 35,000 in Mobile, Alabama. Nobody knows. Because those cameras stay right in your face and I think they can't move.You know, I think they might be fixed because modern cameras maybe -- except every time there is a guy that stands up protesting, you know, they are on drugs or something, cause some of those guys, it's like. They don't even know what the hell they are doing there, all the sudden, the cameras swerve and make perfect shots.And I like it because then it shows how big the crowds are. So, you know. Some time I think I'm going to put in some false protesters. I'll put in some friendly protesters. It's the only way I'm going to be able to get the crowd in.So when we started, I talked about trade. I talked about the border. I talked about a lot of things. And I started on June 16th and -- in Trump Tower, the famous escalator ride. And it takes guts to run for president. I'll tell you, you know, it's like, I've never did this before.And, you know, then they tell you on a debate we had the largest debate. We have the largest audience in the history of cable television. Then CNN a couple of weeks later had 23 million. Fox had 24 million. CNN had 23 million -- the largest audience in the history of CNN.Now, the debates used to be, if you go back four years or eight years, you know, whenever the cycles came up, nobody even wanted -- they didn't want the debates. I think they were forced to take them for licensing. Nobody wanted the debates. They drew nothing, but now they're drawing 24 million. Now they want to have more debates -- "Oh, can we have more? Can we have more?" Can they go three hours?Do you remember when they had the one go three hours? I said, no, I'm not doing three hours. It's too long. Who wants -- I could stand up here for 50 hours, but who the hell wants to sit home watching three hours of the stuff, right?"Mr. Trump, you have 30 seconds. What would you do about ISIS?" Oh, great. And by the way, that question -- I hate those questions. You know why? Because I want to be unpredictable. I don't want to tell ISIS what I'm going to do to knock the hell out of them.And now Iran wants to start negotiating separately for them. Can you believe it? I go crazy. We would have gotten them back. All you had to do was say, "We want our prisoners back." They would have said no. I would have said, "I want them back; you don't understand me. I want them back." They would have said, "No, we won't do that." I would have said, "Bye-bye, " and I would have left. Then I would have doubled up the sanctions. And I guarantee you...... I guarantee you that within 24 hours, they would have called back and they'll say, "You've got your prisoners; can we talk?"And I would have never given them $150 billion. I would have never given them the money. I would have never give -- they're using it -- they don't have to make nuclear. They can buy it. Why are they going to make it? Then we have the nuclear, where they have self- inspections. How about the area -- you know, the big area? They don't want us there. Oh, I wonder why. They don't want us there. So they self-inspect, OK?Then they have the 24-day inspection, but the self-inspection is the beauty. "We think you're making nuclear weapons here." "Well, let us go check, Mr. President, we'll check.""No, sir, we're not making nuclear weapons. Nobody -- no, we're not; we would never do a thing like that."These are people that have deceived us. They've lied to us. They're a terrorist state. But -- and I used to say it's the worst deal that I've ever seen negotiated. And by the way, just to finish prisoners. So they'd come back; we get our prisoners. But then when I hear the other day that now this deal is done. It's all done. And now I hear they want to negotiate to get -- and what do they say? They said very strongly, they said, "We are going to want a lot for the prisoners. That's out -- we're starting off; we're going to want a lot."Now, we've already taken off the sanctions. They're already rich as hell. What -- what's going on there? That's why I say, I mean, some people say it's worst than stupidity. There's something going on that we don't know about. I mean, honest. And you almost think -- I'm not saying that, and I'm not a conspiracy person. As you said, "We are; we're saying it."Half the people in this room are saying it. I'm trying to be -- you know, I'm just hoping they're just stupid people, OK?Which they are. Or there's something going on. Because it's -- it's inconceivable. You know, do you ever see where some things are so bad that it can't be -- that nobody can do what they did, right? Nobody.And, you know, when they asked Kerry and Obama, the deal was made. Everybody knows it's a horrible deal. It's going to need to -- it's going to lead to tremendous nuclear proliferation, and they're so rich now. You know, they became -- $150 billion -- they became so rich. And many other things that you don't even know about. Most people don't even know what the agreement says.But I'll tell you what, when you look at what we're doing, we're not going to have -- if we keep going like this, folks, we're not going to have a country left. We're not going to have a country. We're not going to have a country.And we're like a dumping ground for the world. We're a dumping ground. They want to take these migrants -- the migrants, you know, and I feel terrible about the migration, caused by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. They're the ones that caused it. They go into Libya. They knocked the hell out of Gadhafi. OK, so Gadhafi -- they backed rebels who end up killing the ambassador and the other young people.You know the ambassador was riding in a jeep, one of our jeeps, of course, a military jeep, holding the Libyan flag and you know, freedom, freedom, freedom. And then gets killed by the same people. So, we backed people that turned out to be far worse than Gadhafi.Look at what we did in Iraq. Look at what we did in Iraq. I mean, what the hell did we get? We spent $2 trillion, and that was as a year and a half ago. I keep saying two or three, it's a lot more than that. We spent $2 trillion, we have thousands of deaths, and I'm not even talking other side.You are talking about hundreds of thousands, maybe millions. You have thousands of deaths. We have wounded warriors, who I love, all of. These guys are the toughest -- these are the greatest people.You know, these are the greatest people. And then what happens? We leave, and we have a president that announces the date of when we are leaving. So, I said, man, if I'm the enemy, I'm just going to go wait for 18 months right?He gave a date. We are leaving Iraq, we will be gone by such and such a time. I said, I'm just sitting there watching and I'm saying, man, that's really stupid. Because, believe me, the enemy doesn't want to be killed. You know, you hear so much, oh they want to go with the virgins up to wherever they go, right?They don't. They want to live. And they want to take care of their families, always their families. You remember that, because their families know what's going on OK? You think their wives don't know what they are planning? You think their kids don't know exactly what daddy is doing when daddy is going to fly into the World Trade Center? You think they don't know? They know exactly what's going on. Remember that. And frankly, I think they have more love for their family's lives than they do for their own lives, OK. But they still want to live. So here is Obama, gives an exact date. He gives an exact date and so they pull back.And everyone says, oh, we are doing so well. Look, we're doing so well. Why should they fight when they know, in 18 months, they can go in and take the place? So what happens? So we have ISIS taking a lot of oil. I said take the oil. Remember when we left, I was opposed to going in because I said you're going to destabilize the Middle East.Because you had Iraq and you had Iran. And I said, they fight, they're always fighting for decades and decades, for generations. They fight, that's what they do. They fight. How we ever got involved in this mess is hard to believe. They fight and they were equal militarily. They go this way, 10 feet. They go this way, 10 feet. Then they rest a couple of years, then they start fighting again.Then Saddam Hussein throws a little gas. Everyone goes crazy. Oh, it's because of gas. They go back and forth. It's the same. And they were stabilized. And I said, if you go after one or the other, in this case Iraq, you're going to destabilize the Middle East. That's what going to happen. You're going to destabilize the Middle East. And that's exactly what happened. We totally destabilized the Middle East.We have now migrations, largely because of what's happened afterwards. You know Iraq was horrible. It was stupid to go in and we should have never gone in. But we shouldn't have gotten out the way we went out. And we shouldn't have given dates. I mean, I would have probably said we are going to stay forever. And they would have said, oh, man.And then keep going, keep going and eventually they would get tired and say, this guy is crazy. I mean, he's never going to leave and you'll make a deal. But when you announce you are leaving in 18 months or whatever the hell he said, they just pull back. And then as soon as we left, they come in OK?So they have the oil. You know who the biggest benefactor of the oil is right? China. Always China. I love China. I love Mexico. Their leaders are too smart for us. We have no border. We will build a wall. Mexico will pay for the wall by the way.We're building a wall, we are going to have a border. And people are going to come into our country, but they are going to come in through a legal process. They're not coming in the way they're coming in now, just walking in like nothing.They are going to come in, but they are going to come through a legal process. So, with Iraq, so we give them the date and they take over. We didn't take the year. So for four years, I have been talking about it. Then because of Paris, all of sudden they start bombing the oil.But I didn't want to just bomb the oil. I wanted to take oil. They're bombing. You know, we are bombing. Great. What's going to happen after that? So we're bombing. And, you know, we are not really bombing it, because they are still selling it.I said, how could they keep selling it? Obama does not want to hit them too hard because he is afraid he is going to pollute the atmosphere. No, this is serious. Now think of it. He talks about the carbon footprint and yet he will fly a very old Air Force one, an old Boeing 747, with the old engines and you know, spewing stuff.So, he's got a problem with the carbon footprint. You can't use hair spray because hair spray is going to affect the ozone. I'm trying to figure out. Let's see, I'm in my room in New York City and I want to put a little spray so that I can ---- right? Right? But I hear where they don't want me to use hair spray, they want me to use the pump because the other one which I really like better than going bing, bing, bing ---- and then it comes out in big globs, right, and you -- it's stuck in your hair and you say oh my God, I've got to take a shower again. My hair's all screwed up, right?I want to use hair spray. They say don't use hair spray, it's bad for the ozone. So I'm sitting in this concealed apartment, this concealed unit -- you know, I really do live in a very nice apartment, right?But it's sealed, it's beautiful. I don't think anything gets out. And I'm not supposed to be using hair spray. But think of it. So Obama's always talking about the global warming, that global warming is our biggest and most dangerous problem, OK? No, no, think of it. I mean, even if you're a believer in global warming, ISIS is a big problem, Russia's a problem, China's a problem. We've got a lot of problems. By the way, the maniac in North Korea is a problem. He actually has nuclear weapons, right? That's a problem.We've got a lot of problems. We've got a lot of problems. That's right, we don't win anymore. He said we want to win. We don't win anymore. We're going to win a lot -- if I get elected, we're going to win a lot.We're going to win so much -- we're going to win a lot. We're going to win a lot. We're going to win so much you're all going to get sick and tired of winning. You're going to say oh no, not again. I'm only kidding. You never get tired of winning, right? Never.But think of it. So Obama's talking about all of this with the global warming and the -- a lot of it's a hoax, it's a hoax. I mean, it's a money-making industry, OK? It's a hoax, a lot of it. And look, I want clean air and I want clean water. That's my global -- I want clean, clean crystal water and I want clean air. And we can do that, but we don't have to destroy our businesses, we don't have to destroy our --And by the way, China isn't abiding by anything. They're buying all of our coal; we can't use coal anymore essentially. They're buying our coal and they're using it. Now when you talk about the planet, it's so big out there -- we're here, they're there, it's like they're our next door neighbor, right, in terms of the universe. Miss Universe, by the way, I made a great deal when I sold -- oh did I get rich.That was a great deal. You know, they broke my choppers on that. They said he talks about illegal immigration, we're not going to put him on television. First of all, Univision is being sued like crazy; you wouldn't believe it. And NBC, I made a great deal with them, just like an amazing deal, far more than I would have ever gotten -- I mean, I made an unbelievable deal -- far more than I ever would have gotten if I said I think I'm going to sell it if times were normal, right? Isn't it amazing the way that stuff can work out?But I love Miss Universe and I love the universe. But think of it. So China is spewing up all this stuff and we're holding back. And with China -- you know, we signed these agreements where we have to do it now, they have to do it within 30 or 35 years. I don't think they're going to be doing it.It's like Japan. If somebody attacks Japan, we have to immediately go and start World War III, OK? If we get attacked, Japan doesn't have to help us. Somehow, that doesn't sound so fair. Does that sound good?So South Korea -- I order televisions, I order thousands of televisions a year. I order televisions because I have a lot of stuff and I like nice brand new -- they're all made in South Korea, most -- other than Sony, and Sony, in all fairness, has lost its way. But a lot of them -- Samsung, all of them. I mean, they're all pretty much -- all of them, right? I think just about. But I order thousands of televisions, they're all from South Korea. So we have 28,000 people on the border separating South Korea from this maniac in North Korea, we get nothing. What do -- we get nothing. They're making a fortune. It's an economic behemoth.A lot of you don't know we protect Germany. Germany! Mercedes Benz, how many people have a Mercedes Benz? We protect Germany. It's an economic behemoth.We protect Saudi Arabia. They were, during the good oil days -- now it's probably half, which is fine. But during the good old -- they were making a billion -- listen to this -- a billion dollars a day, and we protect them. Our military -- they pay us peanuts, like nothing. And then if we want to buy -- we want to move to another location, well, that's very expensive if we do that. We want -- they charge us rent?I mean, look. We are run by people that are so bad, they're so out of their league -- and I see it, I see it on the stage. You know, they're -- a lot of them are nice people. You know, a lot of people think I don't like these people. I do like them. But they don't have business sense, they don't have business ability, they don't have common sense. They're politicians, they're all talk, they're no action.When I say...... folks, when I say, "We're going to build a wall." Most of them say, "You can't build a wall -- build a wall." In China 2,000 years ago, they built the Great Wall of China, which is bigger than any wall we're thinking about, OK? The Great Wall of China goes 18,000 miles. We have 2,000 miles of which we only need 1,000 miles, because you have a lot of natural barriers, right, that are extremely tough to get across. We have 1,000 miles.So, China has 18,000 or 13,000 miles, and we have 1,000 miles. We have modern cranes. We have Caterpillar tractors -- I want to use Caterpillar; I don't want to use Komatsu.Made in America.Even my hats, they're made in America. It wasn't easy to find a guy that could do those hats. You know what I'm talking about. I see so many knock-offs of my hat, right? "Make America Great Again." I see these things that are out of plastic. They're out of all sorts of crap. Mine are made in America. And honestly, they do a great job, but they don't produce as many as I'd like because, frankly, there's a big -- I mean, it's amazing. Those hats are amazing. But I wanted to have it made. And you know why I wanted it -- I wanted it, anyway, but I also knew that as soon as the hats came out, and other things -- we have a website -- as soon as the hats came out, I knew the press would be calling. And it's true. First hour when the hats were announced, I get a call from the New York Times. "Mr. Trump, where are those hats made?" I said, "America."I knew it. I knew it. Because as you know, if I would have said China, I would have been in big, big trouble. But they're being knocked off all over the world. I mean, I see hats -- they're like helmets. I see them all. But what are you going to do?But here's the story. We've got to build a wall. So when I talk and when I'm up on the stage with these guys, these people -- wonderful people -- and a very nice woman, Carly. She's a nice woman. When I'm up on the stage with them, they think I'm crazy when I say "Mexico " -- I'm saying, "We're going to build a wall; it's going to be a great wall; it's going to be real wall. See this ceiling? This ceiling is peanuts compared to the height of the wall I'm talking about."I'm talking about a van to get up there. They're not coming down because it's too dangerous.All right? Did you ever see what they do now? We have these little walls. They build ramps. They build a ramp. I say, "Wouldn't it be cheaper just to knock the wall down and just... " And then they drive over it with jeeps loaded up with drugs. Do you see this? They build ramps. There was a picture in Time magazine. It's a ramp -- a little ramp that goes over the wall. So, they have a jeep -- over, down, bump, make money. We get the drugs. Think of it. We -- "build a wall " is right. You've got to build a wall.We get the drugs. They get the cash. No so good, right? We don't like that deal. Our politicians don't know -- they don't know.So when I say "Mexico's going to pay for it, " these guys on the stage with me, they're not business people. They don't understand. Mexico makes a fortune off the United States. Number one, we give them a lot of money. But in addition to that, they're taking our businesses. They're making -- you talk about a trade deficit. I'll tell you what, Mexico in a certain way is in a mini-version the new China. Mexico is making an absolute fortune -- peanuts, compared to the cost of the wall.Let's say the cost of the wall is $10 billion. That's a good -- I can do great job at $10 billion. I think we'll have a lot of money left over. Somebody else would -- and by the way, 20 years ago, they wanted to build a wall. People that are opposed to it now, they wanted to stop and they wanted to build a wall. You know one of the reasons they didn't build the wall? Because of the Environmental Protection Agency, they couldn't get an environmental impact study approved. Can you believe it? Because there was a toad or a turtle or a snake or something was in the way.They won't be too smart when I put my people there.When they call up, "We'd like to speak to the donor that is negotiating it." "No, no. The donor now is Carl Icahn. You're going to speak to Carl Icahn." You know Carl -- great businessman. You have so many people -- they call all these business people -- call. So, a friend of mine, so I call him, I say, "You're actually doing that." And then jokingly, I said, "How long did it take to get started? Did you have to get an environmental impact study approved in order to excavate?"He looked at me, goes, "I -- I hope you're kidding when you say that.They conceived of the idea and they started digging four hours later, OK? There is no, you know, go through 25 years of environmental impact, you are going to hurt the snail. You're going to hurt this. You are going to -- they are doing a big thing.They excavated -- massive, massive -- take a look, massive. The biggest excavation. They are ripping the hell out of that ocean. They are ripping it and they are taking their dirt and they are putting it -- and they're building air fields and they're building forts.We couldn't do it because, just like I said for the law. Legitimately, they could not get an environmental impact statement. Now, that's probably not the only reason it didn't happen. I heard their costs were too high. With me, that's easy.You know, I'm doing the old post office or watch you. I'm under budget, I'm ahead of schedule. Hey, look at the campaign. The guy's at $59 million and he's down at the bottom. I'm nothing and I'm at the top. It's the same thing.I actually said -- it's funny. The other day I got this great review. They said trump is a great speaker. The crowd is spellbound. But he has one problem. And I'm reading, and I want to see. The problem is, he speaks through the applause. In other words, like I say that, you applaud, I start talking you finish your applause. And you know why? Because I'm so excited, because we have so much potential. It's true.I don't want to wait for your freaking applause. We have -- I have so many -- we have so much potential. There are so many things to do. I don't really sort of want to wait. I want to do it. And I just noticed, I did it again. You were getting ready to give a big applause, because you like that, and I'm speaking. I killed the applause. But he is right. But except, I'm not a speaker. What I am is a doer. I get things done.So, when the people up on the stage with me -- and Hillary, Hillary doesn't have a clue. By the way, you talk about low energy. She has lower energy than Jeb Bush, which is hard to believe. She does. And I'll tell you and I've been saying it. And maybe it's rude, maybe it is not. But it doesn't matter. We have a much bigger problem. We have to save our country.So, if I'm rude and if people think I'm rude -- I'm actually a nice person. I have a big heart. I want to help people. I want to help the migration. I want to do a safe zone in Syria. I don't want them coming here. We don't know who these people are. They are undocumented.And we should do a safe zone over there. We should have the Gulf states -- Saudi Arabia and these states they are not spending. They have got to spend. They have to pay. You know, we are protecting them. We're doing -- they wouldn't be there for two minutes if we weren't protecting them. They have to start paying. They are not taking anybody, OK?How about Germany taking millions of migrants. Can you believe what she is doing to that country? And she was the person of the year and I wasn't. Everybody said Trump was supposed to.Hey, what are you going to do. I think she has made a terrible mistake. We will find out. Time will tell. They have tremendous crime problems. I think she has made a tremendous mistake. But what I like is in Syria, with other people's money, meaning the Gulf states and others and Germany and others.Because, look, Germany is paying a fortune to accept all these people. They'll give us the money. We do a massive safe zone. And then eventually when this whole catastrophe straightens out, which I will probably be able to get it straightened out, I understand this now.But once it's straightened out, they could go home to their country, you know, to their area. It is interesting, I have thousands of people that work for me. Thousands. And I have people that come from far -- they are all here legally, don't worry about it. I use eVerify. But I have people -- oh, they go and check. These guys go check.They went into the old post office checking everybody who walked their dog, are you hear illegally? They said they found one person out of hundreds and hundreds. I don't believe it. But, you know, it is possible somebody slipped -- hey, we do have 11 million people in the country. And it is probably a much higher number than that, OK? It is probably a much higher number.But we have to do something about it and we are going to. So, I just want to finish by saying this. Look, we have a situation that is out of control. Our country is a dumping ground for the rest of the world. We are laughed at by the rest of the world.And when I started this journey, and it is a journey, and I do love you people. You're amazing people. And by the way, you are so smart. A lot of times, they will say, well Mr. Trump's people are blue-collar. I love blue-collar. I'm honored by that.But they are not blue-collar. We have blue-collar and we have executives and we have young people. They say the audience is old. It's not older. The audience is young. The other night in Iowa, I told that, and I said, we have so many young people and the place erupted. They are all young people. We have an amazing thing happening, it's just...Look, that's their way of marginalizing, not even me, they are marginalizing you. It is disgusting. But when I started this journey and that's what it is, it's a journey and it's a movement that's taking place. It's a movement. Remember the old days? Silent majority? It's not right. It's a noisy majority. People are angry. It's a noisy majority. These aren't silent people anymore. I go to people -- you can't even hear.Make me number one next year. But this reporter, who is a great intellect, actually, and a very smart guy, very good guy. He said -- he said, "What you've done has never been done before in the history of this country." Newt Gingrich was on a television show the other say, and said, "This is one the great phenomenons I've ever seen in politics; nobody's ever seen it."But he said to me, the reporter, he said, "never been done before." I said, "Well, you know, it's fine, but if I don't win, it's just a waste of time." He goes, "No, no, no. What you've done is incredible." He said, "Even if you don't win, what you've done is incredible; you've totally changed the landscape of politics."No, don't applaud, don't applaud, don't applaud. He said, "You've totally changed the landscape of politics; it's forever going to be different. Your campaign -- there's never been anything like it." OK, he was very nice. I said, "You don't understand. You don't understand. If I don't win, I will consider this " -- and I mean this -- "a total and complete waste of time." I really do.So -- because we're not going to do anything. It's wonderful. Oh, good, I had nice crowds. They'll write about me every once in a while; every two years I'll have a story, "Trump ran this rather good campaign." If we don't win, to me, and honestly you should feel the same thing, if we don't win, it's a terrible waste of time, because you'll have somebody else in there. They won't be able to do what I do. They're not going to be able to. And even if you get one of these Republicans in, like, I didn't finish the -- so, the wall.When I say "Mexico is going to pay, " they all laugh. They all go "heh, heh, heh." They think it's funny. Honestly, these are people -- they think it's funny. They're laughing. You know, lightly, like "Oh ho, that's so funny; ha, ha, ha." They're going to pay for the wall, folks. They're making billions and billions and billions of dollars on deficits that we have with Mexico. The wall is peanuts. They're going to pay for the wall.But he said on one of -- I think it was on Fox, he was being interviewed. And he said, "We're going to build a wall at the southern border." He didn't say Mexico was going to pay was going to pay. He hasn't gone that far yet, but believe me that's going to happen. See, they're all trying to catch up with me. Because when I did this stuff, it was very out there.Now, I'm the one that everybody wants to sort of aspire to. But what happens is -- so Ted's up and he's talking. And, you know, routinely we're going to have the border; we're going to have this and that. And we're going to build a wall.My wife is sitting there. She says, "Darling, did you hear that? He just said they're going to build a wall. That's the first time I've -- you know, that's what you say." She hasn't heard that from any other candidate.OK. So we're going to build a wall. Mexico is going to pay for it. There are so many things we're going to do. But when I -- when I started the journey, it was amazing. I came down -- it took courage. I went down in to the lobby of Trump Tower, on the escalator with Melania. I have never seen -- it looked like the Academy Awards, the press. We have a lot of press here today. They're all live -- look at all those live cameras.So when I came down -- when I came down on the escalator, we came down. And I said, "We're going to do things." And I mentioned illegal immigration. You wouldn't even be talking about illegal -- it wasn't even on the radar. Nobody was talking about illegal immigration. Is that right? Now, it's one of the big subjects.And that's why -- and one of the beautiful polls that came out, and I'm so proud of it, CNN just came out with a poll a couple of, I guess a week ago -- 36 percent for Trump; second is 16; third is 14; then 12. So they're way down. But on the economy, they give me 55 -- 55 percent. That's with 16 people at the time.On the budget, I mean, I understand -- the budget, the economy, I win -- I win it hands down, all right.But listen to this. On illegal immigration, I'm almost at 50 percent.And on ISIS, likewise, almost at 50 percent. So people want to be protected, they want to feel safe. They need strength, they need toughness, they need smarts. I don't want to be tough -- you know, I know a lot of tough guys but they're not smart, and they're the -- they're the easiest. You can be tough, you've got to be smart.Let's start smart first. You've got to be smart-tough. You've got to be tough because the world is trying to take advantage of us. So what happens is this. I came out, I started -- I did it, I was, oh, that first couple of weeks with illegal immigration and Mexico and all of this stuff. Then Kate was killed in San Francisco and Jamiel was killed in Los Angeles. Jamiel Shaw, an unbelievable young man, was killed, just shot right through the head by an illegal immigrant. Kate was shot by a guy who came in five or six times, shot in the back.So many great people. And that's -- these are two, so many. And then you have the economy and the jobs that are being lost and people aren't paying taxes and all of this stuff, right? And all of a sudden, people are coming over, and I say the wall and now they're starting to say the wall. We have to be progressive in our thinking. When I say progressive, I mean like smart. I'm not talking progressive like a Bernie Sanders would say, the guy want to tax you. Think of it.Think of it. This guy wants to raise your taxes to 90 percent. No, no, think -- you'll have to move out of this -- I love this area, by the way. I've been here many times. Great golfing area, right? We love it.No more golf if Bernie Sanders -- no more golf. No, no, you won't have any golf anymore. There won't be -- you won't have any money left to be -- you'll be paying it in taxes. This guy is a total disaster.And I'm not saying that -- I'll tell you why. You know, Hillary said well, I'd like to run against Trump, believe me.This poor Chuck Todd, Meet the Press. His show is dying and he keeps saying do it, do it, but I never liked it. You know, I just -- he never treated me fairly. So I do his show, he gets the highest ratings he's had in years. He went from, like -- believe me, I won't even give you the numbers, they were massive, the numbers, right? I saved his life, and then he goes Hillary Clinton said that she would most like to run against Donald Trump. And yes -- and they're looking forward to it. Trust me, the last person -- she's already gotten a dose last night, do you agree?She had a tough night. She had a tough one. She had a tough night looking at the beauty pageant, OK?So Hillary Clinton said -- and here's Chuck Todd -- and he's a nice guy. I'm not trying to knock him. Please don't be insulted, Chuck. But she says she doesn't like him. But he doesn't treat me right. So he goes the Clinton campaign said they'd most like to run against Trump, like I'm some kind of a sap. So I call him and I say Chuck, let me explain something. When they say they want to run against me, that means they don't want to run against me, do you understand that? Do you understand it's reverse psychology.They say they want to run against me -- first of all, I'm winning and tied in the polls now and I haven't even hit her yet. But look at what happened to all the guys I hit. They're gonzo, they're gone or they're failing badly, OK, and they'll be gone soon.But Hillary Clinton -- think of it. I say so Chuck, report it like properly. Trust me, they don't want to run against Trump. The last thing she wants in her whole life is -- this was only -- I did this in, like, 15 minutes what happened to them, because the husband wants to come and she wants to accuse me of things and the husband's one of the great abusers of the world? Give me a break. Give me a break.Give me a break. So the last person she wants to run against is me.Now here's the story. Look, here's the story. It's very simple. So I announced -- and I was talking about trade, I was talking about the wall, I was talking about the borders, I was talking about Obamacare, I was talking about the 2nd Amendment will be saved, by the way. The 2nd Amendment.It will be saved. The 2nd Amendment is going to be with us if I'm president. You know, they're doing everything. They want to get rid of the bullets now, they're doing everything they can --Think of Paris, think of Los Angeles. Think if you had some guns in Paris on the good side, right? They had no guns. Paris has the toughest guns in the world, folks. And France -- I mean, you get caught with a gun, it's -- the only one that has guns are the bad guys. So they go in these various places, they called the guy the mastermind. He's a moron. I mean, this guy was a moron. I call him the guy with the dirty hat, right? They got him so good. By the way, the French police did a great job and our Los Angeles police did a phenomenal job. They did a great job.Wouldn't it be wonderful if, let's see, this guy right here in front of me, he's a tough guy. This guy with the hat, with the lousy head of hair, but he's a strong-looking guy right here. This guy right there, see? And that one. Wouldn't it be nice if they had a gun on their waist? Somebody. Him, him, him, so that when they -- you know what they were doing in Paris? Get over here, boom. Get over here, boom. Your turn, get over here, boom. One hundred and thirty people with more to follow because there are people that are so badly injured right now in hospitals. Other people are going to die.Same thing over there. These are people that gave a party in honor of their marriage. There's something going on, folks. It's wrong. They gave them a party. They worked -- they gave them a party. She came in on a fiance permit or some nonsense and she was radicalized, and he was probably radicalized by her or he was already radicalized.And people knew that they were radicalized and people in the area knew that they had bombs -- who the hell doesn't know? You're their next door neighbor. And they didn't want to talk about it. You've got to report these people. We've got a real problem. You've got to report them. No more nonsense.They didn't report them, and the reason they didn't is because they don't disagree with them so much. OK? Believe me. It's not because they were afraid. You saw the one who wasn't politically correct to report them. They didn't want to report them. I mean, give me a break. So we have to change.So it started off with me where I was going to talk about trade, I was going to talk about all the things, I was going to talk about the military, building it up. I was going to do all of this, but after Paris and California, and there will be others because they have no fear of us, but after Paris and California, it has totally changed and my poll numbers went up 10 points.It's amazing. They went up 10 points. I said, "What, you think it was the debate?" Because I did good in the debate. They said, "No. People view you as a tough cookie that's not going to take this crap." That's what it is.And now I talk about protection. I talk about -- trust me. The trade -- that's so easy for me. I've got the greatest guys in the world. They're going to come in, they're going to do a great job. I'm going to do some myself. I always talk about Ford. They're going to built a plant, $2.5 billion in Mexico. That's not going to happen with me. That stuff is -- those deals are no good.Ford's leaving. They're closing plants all over Michigan to build a plant in -- in Mexico. How the hell does that help us? OK. Who are the people that think this is a good thing for us? And in the meantime, in Michigan and other places, we have plants closing all over the place and they're spending -- think about a $2.5 billion -- then they're going to sell cars, trucks and parts into the United States, no tax, no nothing.It's very simple. How about two weeks ago, Nabisco announced a big -- Chicago. They announced they're going to leave Chicago with one of their big plants and they're going to move it to Mexico. What's my statement? We're not eating oreos anymore, right? No more.But I don't want this. It's not going to happen. Then they're make -- they're going to make product and they're going to sell it into the United States? Not going to happen. It's not going to happen. And by the way, I'm a free trader. I believe -- we've got to be smart. I mean, we've got to get something. We don't get anything out of anything. We don't get anything.We lose on everything. That Iran deal was a disaster. By the way, think of the Iran deal for one second. I always -- and this came to me two weeks ago. I don't know why I didn't think of it sooner. Very disappointed with myself.The Iran deal is the worst deal I've ever seen negotiated, OK? I'm wrong. You know what the worst deal is? Iran's a part of that one too. We gave them Iraq. That's even better. Think of it. We gave Iran Iraq. Iran has the biggest -- think of it. They're going to have the richest oil -- if you go to Iraq, take a look. Among the largest oil reserves in the world.We gave them, by decapitating Iraq and then leaving, because frankly, once we did it we should have kept 20,00 troops or something, we give Iraq. So not only did they make a great deal in terms of the Iran deal that we know having to do with nuclear, we also gave them Iraq. We gave them Iraq, that they've been after for 100 years. We handed it to them.So now, they have the largest oil reserves among -- in the world. That's even better than the original deal. I mean, whoever is representing Iran is doing a hell of a job. OK? If that was a stock, you've got to buy some.So we are not going to have deals like that with me. It's not going to happen. We're going to become rich again, we are going to become safe again and we are going to become strong again. And...And you're going to remember this moment. This is going to be an important moment for all of us. The one thing I have to say and I have to ask you to do, go out and vote. It's going to be your turn.Number three. Remember, it starts on February 1st with Iowa. We go to New Hampshire, then we go to the finals, so three weeks. We've got four weeks to go, and then we have three weeks after we start. No matter what is going on in your life, you have got to out and vote. Because if you don't, it's not going to happen.Don't sit back and say, oh, Trump is going to do well. The more we can win by, you know, the more power we have in a sense, because it is like a mandate. But you have got to go out and vote. And I will tell you this. It has been an honor to be here, I love this area, I love the people here. It's been an honor.But we will make America great again, I promise. Thank you.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.We're in Vermont. That air is so nice and clean. I'm breathing so much of that air.Thank you. That's so great. That is so great.It is true. I got here and I said I just want to breathe that air. I went outside. There's like 20,000 people. We can't get them in. So, you are very, very lucky tonight, I hope, right?We are going to be very happy.We had a crowd that stretched -- it must be 15 blocks. I have never seen anything like it.But we have -- we do have big crowds everywhere. People want to see our country great again and they want to see a lot of positive things happening. And that's going to happen. We are going to make it something really special.We are going to make it really special. We have been taking a lot of hits. We don't have victories anymore. You understand that we don't. When was the last time?When you look at what's going on all over the world right now, whether it's the Middle East, whatever -- by the way, do we have people, seats -- do you have seats? You don't. You're standing.I think they got rid of the seats. They got rid of the seats. They took seats out so we could get more people. Yes, go ahead. Sit down. Sit down. Be comfortable. Thank you. Be comfortable. Be comfortable.Great people up here. It's amazing, right? Yes, it's amazing.So, you know, I announced I was going to run. I couldn't stand watching it anymore.We used to have victories. We don't have victories. We are going to have so many victories that you are going to be bored of winning. You are going to get so tired. You are going to be so tired of it.So, I always like to start, only if it's good news, but we have had good news since June 16. I announced on June 13.And a lot of the pundits, these are very dishonest people, many of them. And some of these guys, some of these guys are just brutal and terrible.Oh, look at all the people up there, too. Wow.What a nice group.But, they all said, oh, he's never going to run. He's just doing this for fun. He's not going to do it. He's done it before.I did. I almost ran four years ago. I wish I did. I really wish, because that was -- honestly, that was an election that could have been won and should have been won. But, hey, so we delay it. Maybe this is better. OK. Who knows?We have gone deeper into the abyss. That, I can tell you.But I think I'm very happy, because, in Vermont -- OK, you know what these are. I love ratings. I get so -- I mean, these other candidates, why do you always talk about ratings? Because I'm number one. If I were number two -- it's true. If you're number two, you don't talk about the ratings, right? We don't talk about the ratings.But, in Vermont, I'm number one by a lot, 32 percent, beating everybody.Very important. Very important.NBC did a big poll, 35 percent, by far number one. I'm killing everybody. I won't even say -- should I say who is number two or not even bother? They're so -- they said no. They are so far behind. I don't -- I hope it doesn't matter.Today, Reuters -- listen to this one, 43 percent, 43. And do you ever notice, at the beginning, I come out, I started -- we started off -- we started with nothing. And Jeb Bush was actually leading. And then we found out he had no energy and he went down the tube.No, we need energy.Folks, we need energy. We need energy. You know, you have Jeb Bush. You had Rand Paul. He's like gone. In fact, he won't make the stage. He said, if I don't make the main stage -- I think he's quitting or something, if he doesn't make the main stage.So, it looks like he's not going to make the main stage. So, I guess that means -- I'll tell you what. Kentucky is a great state. I can't imagine somebody's not going to challenge him after the horrible job he's done with this. Right?If I were in Kentucky, I would challenge him. I would run in a primary and you would win. But that's his problem. That's not my problem. We probably won't see him too much longer.But we have had a total now of 17. We started off with 17. One by one by one by one, they disappear. And everybody so far that's disappeared has taken on Trump.And you remember Governor Perry? He was brutal. Gone, right?Lindsey Graham gone.Go ahead. Governor Walker, nice guy, gone.These were all guys -- and I feel guilty. Actually, I feel guilty. And plenty of others. How about Pataki? He had zero. Pataki, he had zero, zero, zero.I said, at what point -- when do you leave when you have all zeros, right? They actually had him down once with a zero and an arrow to the left, which meant less than nothing. I said I think it's a typo. How do you have less than nothing?So, we have lost a lot of very fine people, really fine people.And it's been an experience, because, you know, when I first came out, I was watching the pundits say this is the finest field of talent the Republicans have put on since World War II.They said World War II. And I said, no. Charles Krauthammer said it's the finest group of talent they have had in decades. I said, man, that's bad. I'm running against all this talent. And then I said, after like a couple months, I said, we want that. I want to see this, because we will need that, but -- because we are going to do things that nobody else can do, folks.We are going to fix this country. We are going to make it safer. And we're going to do things that nobody else can do.And, by the way, I have to say, you know these are Republicans. And some of them, I really like, and some of them, I really respect.You don't respect everybody. You can't respect -- we are going to build a wall. Don't worry about it.And wait. Wait a minute. And who is going to pay for the wall?Who is going to pay for the wall?Who is going to pay for the wall?I have never done that before. That's actually true. I have never done -- that's true. I have never done that before. That's very exciting.I have never done it before. And that was pretty cool. We are going to have to use that. I will always be thinking of Vermont when I use it.I will tell you, who's not going to pay for the wall? Vermont.So, it was interesting, because when we said we're going to come up here, a lot of people said why. Most of the guys are not coming up.They are afraid to come up here, because it has a tendency to be a little bit liberal, really rough. OK?No, no. And if you look at the candidates that are coming here, I think I'm like the only one, the only one.And I said -- and all over the networks tonight, you know what? All over the networks, all over the place, this turned out to be different. I thought it would be nice, soft evening. We will have 500, 600 people. We will sit around a little fireside and we will talk. We will have some fun.And then I hear CNN all day long, this line is massive, this line. And they have -- look at the line. So, it turned out to be good. But I'm here for different reasons. I'm here because you people are great. And everybody said it.And I have a friend who is in my campaign who is very much attuned to Vermont, loves Vermont. He said, you have got to do it. I said, I want to do it. Let's do it.And now I find out, I'm the guy. And I think people are going to remember that when it comes time to pull that little lever. OK? They are going to remember. They are going to remember.So, on the polls, so we are winning with Vermont. We are winning with Reuters, winning with NBC, winning with "Washington Post"/ABC. Winning with everything.I mean, honestly, we are winning with everything. We are winning in Iowa, CNN, 33-20, new poll. And, very importantly, they have these polls. You know, it's interesting. These politicians, they go out and they hire pollsters. They pay them hundreds of thousands of dollars a month.You wouldn't believe the money. And I didn't do it. By the way, I'm self- funding my own campaign. Nobody is giving me money. Nobody. Nobody. Nobody.It's amazing. People really like that. You know, people really like it, because I know the system. Who knows the system better than me?I gave very recently, before I did this, $350,000 to the RGA. That's the Republican Governors Association. And over the years, I have given millions and millions of dollars to candidates. And I understand what it means. And I'm not saying right, wrong. But you know what? When you give and let's say you have a company and you want something for that company, or a country you're representing as a lobbyist or a special interest, and you want something for that country because they pay you a fortune, what happens, you gave millions of dollars, like Jeb took a fortune.The guy took in $128 million. He's a stiff. How do you get that kind of money? Although, actually, he said some very nice things about me today. And I couldn't believe it, actually.He spent like $10 million in ads against me, but he said I'm a gifted politician. I said maybe that's not good, being a gifted -- I wish he just said I was gifted, left the politician out.No, I thought it was nice. He said I'm a very gifted politician, I'm very successful, this and that. See, now, here's the -- I would never say that about my opponent. I would say, my opponent has nothing going. My opponent is horrible, terrible. My opponent is a loser.We always say loser, right?You know, there are some words.But, actually, Jeb was very nice to me today, so I appreciated that.But -- but there are some words that -- I went to an Ivy League school. I went to the Wharton School of Finance. And a lot of people say -- it's wonderful, some of the pundits. They say, he's plainspoken.Plain spoken. You know, I don't know, is that nice? Is that good or bad? I don't like it. Plain spoken.I guarantee you I have a vocabulary better than all of them, certainly most of them. I know I have an IQ better than all of them, I know that. But they say he's plain spoken.And then I was saying the other night, you know, I was trying to describe the stupidity that goes on. I always use the word, like they are incompetent, they don't know what they are doing. But then you go back to the same words, stupidity.You say, what is a better word to describe what's happened to this country? What is a better word than stupid? Stupid. It's stupid. We are being led by stupid people.I mean, think of it. Think of it.I mean, sometimes the words come out. They are the right words, the better words.You look at what's happened. Take a look at this. We have a deal that we just made with Iran. One of the dumbest --No, no, think about it. One of the dumbest transactions I have ever seen.Now, between countries, unbelievable, but I'm talking any. We did "The Art of the Deal". Everybody here probably read "The Art of the Deal", right?Did most of you read it? Who read it? Almost everyone.So, they do a deal, they give Iran $150 billion, billion dollars. They have so much, they are so rich. If Iran were stock, buy it. OK?By the way, speaking of stock, you see the bubble, little bubble is starting to go a little bad. Some bad numbers coming out. Some really bad things. And you better be careful. Be careful. Be very conservative, because it could be very rough out there.And who can fix things better than me in that's what I do, I fix things. That's what I do.That's what I do.But, you look at the Iran deal and you look at what happened and the way it was made and the points we gave up and constantly. We don't get our prisoners back -- $150 billion and we don't get our prisoners back. We have four over there. We should get them back. We should have had them back, right?Now, we should have had them back three or four years ago. This deal is -- first of all, a deal that goes that long. How many years have they been negotiating? Three? Three and a half years?And we walk in, yes, we'd like this. They go, no! Oh, OK, you win. Just went on for years, right? We got nothing -- 24-day periods for inspection. I love the one, self-inspect, they have the right to self -- certain areas are really hot. In other words, that's probably where they make those suckers, right?So, they have the right to self-inspect. So, they're going to self -- so we call up, we understand you are doing nuclear at this location. OK, well, inspect it, we'll call you back tomorrow. No, we are not doing it.This is the dumbest deal that I have ever seen. We didn't get anything.So, here is what happens: we have $150 billion that we gave them. They are going to now and they just said, we would like to start negotiating for the prisoners. Now, think of this. The prisoners should have been out three years ago.What you do, you need the right messenger. I could take 85 percent of the audience and you could have done a good job. It's true. Ten percent, no good. Five percent, mixed.No, it's true, not everybody. Look, we have Kerry in there, he's one of the 5 percent, OK? No, he shouldn't be doing this.You go in the first day, you say, listen, we need our prisoners. Don't talk about the $150 billion yet, because you don't want to give them that either. You go in, you want to get the prisoners out. And you say, we want to get our prisoners out, you have to let them out. They don't help you, they do help us.Set a nice tone, a very nice tone. That's a word Hillary uses a lot. She said she doesn't like my tone. My tone.By the way, they are chopping off heads of everybody in the Middle East, especially if you happen to be Christian. They are chopping off your head -- she doesn't like my tone, if you can believe this.I don't like their tone. I don't like her tone.Crazy.So, you go in and you say we're going to have our prisoners back before we start. They are going to say no because the Persians, you know, they are great negotiators. The Iranians, Persians are great negotiators. So, they are going to say no, absolutely not. We are going to say bye-bye.Now you leave. You leave the room.We never leave the room. How many times did we all think Obama was going to leave the room, meaning get his people to come out? They go back to Iran, they tell everybody we are stupid, they're winning. This is before the deal is even done, everyone is saying we are stupid.When somebody says you are stupid, you don't do the deal. But they are marching in the streets, celebrating a deal that hasn't been done. But I say this, with we say no. They say no. They are going to say no.Now you leave, double up the sanctions. Sit back and wait for the phone call, right? They will call you up within 48 hours, guaranteed and they'll say, we'll give you the prisoners, right?This is the way it works. This is the way it works.So, they give you the prisoners. We have to get the prisoners. Not at the end. You get them out in the beginning, you get them out before it starts and all you had to do is just say, you will never get them in the first session, they will say no, 100 percent, I mean 95 percent. Might be they give them, but I doubt it.But you leave and you double up or triple up. They say that's it. OK, now we have the prisoners back. Now you go back in.Next statement, we are ready to start negotiating, we want to be fair, but we will not give you $150 billion. We are not going to give you any money. We get enough problems. We owe 19 trillion bucks. We owe $19 trillion and we give them $150 billion.And we just tell them this, not good, right, hey, what could Vermont do with $150 billion?We made Iran a real power.So, what you do is say, you have to get the prisoners out first. You don't mention the money, because, you know, when you mention the money, it gets tougher. So, now they say, no, we have to have that money. You are not going to have it. I mean, you're just not going to have it. We don't have it.Claim poverty. We are a poor nation. We owe $19 trillion to stupid budget that was approved two weeks ago. The stupid budget.How about that?Did you ever see a budget approved so fast? And that's worth $2 billion -- that's worth $2 trillion. So, now, we are going to be at $21 trillion.Here is a budget. I don't get it. You know, the only one -- because I think Obama is one of the worst negotiators in the history of the world, OK?Except with the Republicans, with the Republicans, he's a great negotiator. With the Republicans, he does great. He gets a budget approved I don't understand. He's got the money for Planned Parenthood.He's got the money, think of it. He's got the money to fund Obamacare, which we're going to -- by the way, which we are going to terminate it, we're going to repeal it and we're going to replace it with something much better.You see your premiums? You see what's going on? Your premiums are going up 25, 34 -- I saw one go up 48 percent -- 48!A friend of mine calls me up. How it's doing? Oh, this Obamacare is -- 48 percent. Your deductibles are through the roof. You'll never get to use it. You have to die to use it. You have to die. You need massive operation -- you need like 40 operations on your brain and maybe you could get something.No, the deductibles are through the roof. They are through the roof. Obamacare is a dead duck anyway because in '17, just my luck, if I win, I get Obamacare. It's going to fail during my -- then they will blame me. Can you believe it? They'll blame me.They'll say, oh, Trump did a lousy job, Obamacare failed. If we had Obama, it wouldn't fail -- well, it's failing of its own weight.And numerous stories came out recently where by '17, which is in two years, it's dead. It can't survive. Of course, the Republicans will find a way to keep it going.I'm so upset and angry with the Republicans. We know -- we know what we are getting with the Democrats. But the Republicans, here we finally have majority. So, we have majority, majority and we have the wrong president, right? But the second majority doesn't -- it's like we are doing worse now than ever before.And now, Obama, he's got so little respect for the Republican leaders that he just goes along and signs executive orders for everything.No, no, it's all executive orders, because that's easy to do. I tell you the one good thing about an executive order is that new president come and with just a signature, they are all gone. That's good. That's good. And they're gone. They are gone.So, when you look at a deal like that, when you see what's happening with our country and you see that, we are going to change that. Now, as far as Iran is concerned, I saw what happened over the last few days with the embassy in Iran, the Saudi embassy.Folks, they want to take over Saudi Arabia. Now, they are taking over Iraq because we handed them that on a platter. I was against going in, I am most -- and I say it all the time -- I am the most militaristic person in the room except that guy with a hat. Stand-up, with the beautiful beard. Stand up, he's the only one.He's the only one. You are my guy. You are my guy. I can tell.I know. Do I know my people? And I've never met him before. He just looks good to me.No, I said he's the only person more militaristic than I am. OK? And you are. You know what I'm talk about. No, but I'm the most.And we're going to make our military so strong, so powerful, so big, so good.So good and -- that nobody's going to mess with us, folks. But I'm the one that didn't want to go into Iraq. And in 2004, 2003 you'll see stories, Trump said, don't go into Iraq, you're going to destabilize the Middle East. OK? I mean, say what we want. We spent $2 trillion, right? Two trillion, $2 trillion.Wounded warriors, who I love. All over the place. I see them. So many.Some of them so badly injured and they have a better attitude than I have and they have a better attitude than half the people in the room. I mean, these are amazing people. Men and women. What they've gone through and their attitude.And what I said is we take the oil. Remember, how long have I been saying it? Take the oil. For years, I've been saying. And they've been saying that doesn't make sense, you can't -- now they're taking the oil.But they're not taking it. They're bombing it. Although Obama doesn't want to really bomb it because he thinks it's going to create air pollution and be bad for the atmosphere. And this is a true story.What do you think if General Douglas MacArthur, if they said you can't really bomb the oil because it's bad for the environment? Do you think he might say I don't give a damn, bomb.Now, we need -- we need Douglas MacArthur. We need General Patton. We need people. We need people.These are great people. These were incredible people. These were people that won. They know how to win. We don't have people that know how to win. We need people -- and you know what? In the service we have -- I know a lot about West Point and Annapolis and the Air Force Academy, etcetera.We have great people. We have great people. We let one of our best generals go because he had foul language. He talked too -- you know who I'm talking about. He had foul language. And we let him go.And yet the people loved him -- his soldiers, his guys, and women. They absolutely love this guy. They wanted to fight for the guy. But he was very foulmouthed.Who the hell cares? We've got to start winning.We have -- and I say this. We have an amazing situation, because I see these generals on television all time. They're on television. I don't want generals on television. I don't want them.And they're saying what are we going to do? What are you going to do? What are you going to do here? And then, we're going to attack here and then we're going to attack here.I figure it's camouflage, they're giving false -- turns out to be true. Or Obama two months ago, right? We sent 50 people over. He thinks it's good. See, I think it's bad to send 50 people. Because 50 people? What the hell are we doing?But we're sending 50 people. So, he announces we're sending 50 people. Now, these are really our finest. These are 50 incredible guys that I assume -- women, and these are our finest and they're going over, right?Why do we have to say that they're going there? Because now they have a target on their back. No, no. Seriously. They have now a target. And the enemy is looking for them.Unbelievable. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. That was a very mild protester I would say.You know what I love about the protesters, though? And I'll tell you. Is that a camera? Is that a camera? Are you on my side or somebody else -- he's holding something up. And I hope it's a camera.He's on my side. I can see. He's one of our guys. He's one of the good guys.But you know, like these protesters, they come in and the only thing I like about them is that the -- look at all those cameras back there. Look at all of them. Everybody's on television. But they never show the crowd. They never want to show the crowd.And the good thing about the protesters -- they won't turn them. In fact, I used to think that like they're fixed, it's a modern camera, they're fixed so you can't turn them. It's always on my face, right? And you heard me say this before. They never turn them.And what happens is when you have a protester the only time people learn how big these crowds are, because we've got 20,000 in Dallas, 35,000 in Mobile, in Iowa, in New Hampshire. We have the biggest crowds. South Carolina we're packed. We're going to be in Pensacola, Florida next week. We're going to have 20,000 people.We have -- and nobody ever knows. I go home to my wife. She said, oh, you did well tonight, how was your speech? Did you have many people? I said many people? The place was packed. I had thousands. I had 15,000 people.In Lowell, Massachusetts, the other night. You saw that.We set a record in the history of the arena. And she'll say, did you have many people? And I say, why do you ask? Because they never show the crowd.That's why I love protesters, because whenever there's a protester, you know, I think they can't move the cameras, right? That they're fixed. They turn into pretzels, they can move them.If there's a protester behind and under the camera, it will do a somersault. It's unbelievable. So --It's true. It's true. We're having a good time. We're having a good time.Thank you. We have a good time. You know, we have a good time with a bad subject because we don't have much going, right? We don't have much going in terms of -- and I always say -- I tweeted out today, @RealDonaldTrump, @realDonaldTrump. It's great.Five and a half million people. I have more than 5 on Facebook -- it's sort of like owning "The New York Times" without the losses. It's unbelievable. No, it's true.You tweet out. You have millions and millions of people. I mean, friends of mine they do a book, would you do a favor? What? Could you tweet out I'm doing a book?So, if I like the guy or the woman and they're doing a book I tweet it and, all of a sudden, they become a best-seller. And then they don't talk to me anymore, they give me no credit. They give me no credit.But it is a powerful instrument. You know, we're dealing in social media and we're getting a lot of credit for doing a good job with social media. And a lot of the voters -- it's true. A lot of the voters -- a lot of the voters are going to be coming out. And you know, it's been really amazing.So, just to finish off with Iran. What we do is we negotiate properly. And I have the greatest negotiators in the world who want to come with me. Carl Icahn, one of the great businessmen, endorse me and many others. You know Carl.And they don't want money. They want to help. They want to do something. You know, they've made billions and billions of dollars. They don't need to be paid, you know, a salary.Now, we have negotiating against China. We have people that are political hacks. We have people that gave money and they want to be, you know, in government. And I want to pick the finest people.Some of them, get prepared, are not nice. They have bad personalities. But they're brutal, brutal genius killers. I want them, right?I mean, we lose, we lose so much money on trade and all these other things. You're right.So, here's what's happened -- and over the last short period of time, I've been talking about the deal with Iran and I've been saying it's one of the worst deals, but then I thought it's even worse than I thought, because I thought the $150 billion that they got and all of the other things that they got, and they'll have nuclear proliferation all over the place because of that deal, and that deal's horrible for Israel, by the way. Horrible.It's really horrible for the Middle East but it's horrible for Israel. And Netanyahu, I don't know. He was having an awfully hard time.I think Barack Obama is the single worst thing that's ever happened to Israel. I really believe that.And then I said to myself, OK, so they made this great deal, they made this great deal, and then I said, you know, it's one of the greatest deals and I started thinking, no, it's not. The greatest deal -- they also made, they made two great deals. It's like a movie company. You take Marvel where they have these great successes, right? They've got like five of the top ten movies ever.Well, this is the same thing. Think of it. So they make this great deal. What else do they get? They got Iraq.Get him out. Get him out. Get him out.Oh, no. It's only the same people coming down. No, there's a remnant. Yes. He's right there.OK. Yes. Throw him out. Throw him out into the cold. You know --Don't give them their coat. No coats. No coats. Confiscate their coat.You can't -- by the way, just to finish. I have one word left -- Iraq. And nobody heard it because these characters.So, they not only got a great deal but they also take over Iraq with the second largest oil reserves in the world. They have it, sure as you're sitting there. They have Iraq.So, we're spending trillions. And who's taking over? Iran is taking over the oil. They're taking over Iraq.I mean, what we are doing is so incredible. There's nothing like what we've done. We're destroying ourselves. We're losing our jobs. We're losing our base. We're losing everything.And it's not going to happen anymore. It's not going to happen anymore. It's not going to -- we're not going to let it happen anymore. Not happening.Now, and I will tell you something about the protesters. And I respect what they're doing. But I really believe unless they have a substance abuse problem, which is probably there -- he does. He definitely does.No, I really think I can take them into a room, talk to them for 20 minutes. What are we doing? We want strong military, we want good health care, we want a good country. We want low taxes. I'd cut the taxes way down, especially for the middle class in business.And, you know, I actually said, I could take these kids, most of them are kids -- are they talk -- I don't even hear them. Their voice is so weak I don't even hear them. OK. You can get them out. Yes, get them out.Thank you, darling.I love my people. They say my people are the most loyal of anybody, I can do anything.They say -- they say we have the most fun. I'll tell you what, I have the smartest people. They were trying to say, well, our people aren't -- let me tell you, we have the smartest people. I'm really smart.My uncle was one of the top people at MIT for years. He was a -- we have good stuff. We have great genes in this room. We have smart people. They get it. They get it. They really do get it. It's been an amazing -- it's been an amazing journey for me.Is somebody shouting back there? Oh, "I love you." That's good.But isn't this more exciting, though, than these other rallies where they have no protesters, nobody cares. Nobody cares. They go in, everybody falls asleep, they say can I go home now, darling? And everyone leaves. And the guy's standing there, please vote for me.How about this guy O'Malley? I mean, here's a guy -- no, think of it. His number one credential is he was the mayor of Baltimore. Can you believe it?And he -- OK. So now he holds a rally and one man showed up. Did you see that? It was one of the great -- and he's sitting there talking to the guy for an hour, just two people.Then the guy gets up and he leaves and the press says, well, are you going to vote for him? No, actually, I'm not.Spends a -- I mean, it's time for him to get out. It's time. Time for O'Malley to get out. He is really bad news.At least Bernie is getting some action. He gets much smaller crowds than me. But at least Bernie gets some action, right? Oh, would I love to run against Bernie. I would love -- I would --That would be a dream come true. But actually, I must say, I have my mindset on Hillary. I have my mindset on Hillary. It's just -- it's just going to be -- what?We'll take it -- what does that mean? That's not nice. I got in such trouble. How about last week, did I get in trouble? What did I say? What did I say?I said nothing. But I did -- I did get in trouble. The crowd there was incredible too. You know what happens? We have amazing people. We have like these crowds. And they're all like interchangeable.We have great people. You go to the south, you go to the north, you go to the west, the people have one thing in common -- the enthusiasm. The love of their country, they love their country. It's unbelievable.And let me tell you. Let me tell you something. It's going to be very interesting. I don't think we can be beaten. There's a momentum that we have. There's a momentum that we have that is so unbelievable.I thought I heard a little voice over there. Get them out. Take them out. Get them out of here.Don't give him his coat. Don't give him his coat. Keep his coat. Confiscate his coat.You know, it's about 10 degrees below zero outside. No, you can keep his coat. Tell him we'll send it to him in a couple of weeks.All right. It's amazing. No, it's amazing. But you know what? Sometimes we have -- sometimes you go into 20,000, you have none of that. I knew I was going to have some in Vermont in all fairness. If we didn't have that, it wouldn't be Vermont, right?Hey. Why do you think the other Republicans are not coming up here, folks? OK? I'm the only one. Why do you think?But it is -- it's a funny story. So, the first time it happened was a couple of months ago. And I was really nasty. I'll tell you one thing. We all like Bernie. Do you like Bernie? OK.Well, if you want to pay a 90 percent tax -- he wants to tax you at 90 percent. So you don't like him. I wasn't sure. I had to feel that out.But how about when the two young women took over his microphone? They came up screaming at him, and he retreated. He went like -- and they made the speech for the rest of that. That won't happen with me. I promise. I promise. I promise.That was a terrible -- I tell you what. It was so embarrassing to watch that. You know, because he's a politician, he's from this country.When they took over that microphone that night, screaming at him, he was petrified. He walks to the back of the stage with that tall guy, the goofus guy. He stands there. And they're both watching these two girls speaking.And the crowd is saying, give him back the mike. Give him back. And Bernie's standing -- I lost so much respect for Bernie. That was terrible. We can't let anybody take over our mike. We can't let it happen. Can't let it happen.June 16th in New York. I said to my wife, you know, we've got to do it. And I looked down at that building at Trump Tower, 57th and 5th Avenue, and I looked down, and I saw more of those cameras than I've ever seen at one place. I have never seen.The entire lower level of Trump Tower was cameras, cameras, cameras. Outside on the streets they were closing -- trucks. The equipment. NBC, ABC, CBS, FOX, everything. Networks I never even heard of. I never saw so many networks.I said, are there that many -- it was like the Academy Awards. It was. It was like the Academy Awards. You all remember it.And everybody said he's not going to run. So they were all waiting. But I just said, look, we've got to do it. And I took a deep breath. And I said, let's go -- because it takes guts to run for president. It really does. No, it really does.I mean, it's not something I had in mind. Steve Burke who's a great guy, the head of Comcast, he came to my office just before. He wanted me to renew for a lot of episodes of The Apprentice. It sounds a little trivial.We love The Apprentice. It sounds trivial. It's not. It's a lot of money. And then the deals I lose. Plus, I love my lifestyle. And, you know, now I'm driving around in an armored vehicle. I drive around in a vehicle. I say how good are those windows? Sir, they can take 28 AK-47 bullets before they degenerate. I say that's a hell of a window, right?And then I say how about the doors? The doors are unlimited, sir. They can take -- and the bottom and the top. I'm driving around in an army tank. I'll never see a Rolls Royce again! Think of it. I may never see a car I want to be in again.And they always put me in so fast. I'm going in. You know, it's whatever the hell they call them. And I -- boom, get in. Boom, the door closes. And when that door closes we're talking about -- the only good thing, if you ever get hit nothing's going to happen. I'll tell you that.But it's been a really amazing experience. I mean, the best part of the experience are the people that I've met. The people in this country are so competent. I mean, they're so incredible. And they're so enthusiastic. And I mean that, I love the people. I love the people.But I said to my wife, I said, come on, we have to do it. We've got to do it. And I really didn't know until that escalator. We've all seen the famous escalator ride down. Melania and her beautiful white suit and me waving. I didn't even know who the hell I was waving to.And I came down and we made a speech and we talked about illegal immigration, right? Did I take heat? Did I -- Rush Limbaugh said he has never seen so much incoming to one -- it's true. I took -- I never had anything like it.And then two weeks later, it started dying down, dying down. Now, people are saying he's right. It's turned out to be right. It's now -- I'm like -- I'm like all these guys are trying to catch me.And Ted Cruz, who I like, but three nights ago, he was being interviewed and he said, and we will build the wall. He never said that. My wife side, that gentleman just said we're going to build a wall, he's going to build a wall. I said he never said that before.So, they're all coming to me and they're all -- but nobody can do it like -- -- first of all, nobody can build a wall like me. That's for sure.It was excellent. But I'm standing there shaking hands with club members. Nice people. Great people. Probably some here today. Anybody here? Is anybody here from that club that was very nice? Anybody here? Because I took so many pictures that day. So I did that. I did it as a favor. And other things. He asked me, would I come up and make a speech on behalf of James Foley? I'll do that any time. I think that was good. And I made a big contribution, a very big contribution to James Foley. And I think that's fine.And I think that's fine. But I came up, I made a speech. I did a lot of things. Strange on, @realdonaldtrump. So, I have millions and millions of followers, especially when you add Facebook. It's like 5.6 million for Twitter, over five million for Facebook. Instagram it's like 11, 12 million people. And I said, what is it? He said, would you do me a favor? This is a few weeks ago. Chris Christie did not make the main stage. I would like you to do me a favor and tweet, and tweet that Chris Christie should be on the main stage. I said, but, Joe, I mean, he didn't make it because he didn't make it, right? You have to go through, you have to get a certain number of points on the polls. Well, he didn't make it but he should be there. It's not fair. Would you tweet? I said, I'll tweet. So I put out a tweet. What am I going to say? I figured I'd be nice. But I knew immediately it was going to draw -- but can you imagine a guy calling me up, knowing he's going to endorse a guy, asking me to use my Twitter to put him in. Other than that, I mean, the guy's bad news. He's not a talented guy.Then I get a letter -- you won't believe this. I had to take the glasses out because this is worth while to read. I get a letter from one of his top people. Listen to this. Just got it recently. It's to Amanda, that's my person in charge, from Robin Wilson, the "Union Leader." "Hope all is well and that you had a wonderful holiday season. Happy New Year, Amanda. I'm emailing today because I wanted to let you know about a special edition we'll be doing just before the New Hampshire primary called Voters First. I have attached a letter that explains what will be included along with the rate card." Rate Card. This guy wants advertising. We just got the letter. It's a personal letter. It's not a letter out from a computer. "There's a perfect edition for you. I really hope you'll consider running an ad. Please let me know as soon as possible. Robin Wilson, advertising manager." OK. I'm saying, I don't believe it. The girl walked up, she said, Mr. Trump, what's going on here? My girl was even surprised. She didn't even know about it. Then the next page, this, then it's the next page after that. Think of this, this guy is running a newspaper into the ground. I mean, you had a guy, Mr. Loeb, was like this legendary guy. Look, two-page spread, $7,500. Back cover for only $3,500. Does anybody want the back cover of a newspaper that lost all credibility?I'll take it. I'll give you $500. Inside back, the "Union Leader, " OK? That's not the way you do business and you have a guy who's out of control, thinks he's hot stuff. He's not hot stuff.Anyway, I just had to bring this up. It shows the dishonesty with the media. It really does. The media is very dishonest. Although I have to tell you, "Time " magazine did a cover story of me this week. It's one of the best stories I've ever read about myself. And it's really not about --It's true. But it's really not about myself. It's really about you. It's about a movement that's going on. And I'll tell you what, I was -- I've been on the cover of "Time " now a number of times in the last three months. Obviously, I should have been picked as person of the year, right? Do you agree?I think the reason -- the reason -- yeah, maybe next year. Next year would be even better because we can prove we can do things. But they didn't and they picked Angela Merkel, who is -- I mean, do you see what's going on? We talk about immigration, we talk about borders. Do you see what she's done to Germany? Just coming over just before this morning, I'm watching television, the rapes, the riots, what's happening is unbelievable. It's unbelievable. Unthinkable. They've been there for two weeks. And the place is going to hell. She got person of the year. I didn't. I guess I came in second. They felt guilty so they gave me another cover. You have to go out and get Time Magazine because it's talking about a movement of great people. It's a movement like they haven't seen. Many people are saying, there's never been anything like this in this country, what's taking place like us. Not me. I'm a messenger. It's with us.An amazing, an amazing thing. I'm very proud of that story because that was a story -- usually I'll get a story and they usually put a shot in. They'll have three good paragraphs and one total killer. Then five good paragraphs and just a total killer. You tell people, don't read it. The killers make up for it. They have to do it. And they're dishonest. But the "Time " magazine piece -- they're pretty liberal. This "Time " cover story is amazing. It talks about what we've done and what we've accomplished.So let's talk a little about what we're doing in terms of the competition and then we're talking about the problems of the country and how to fix the problems. Basically, how to fix the problems, elect Trump as president, OK?We can cut it short. You know what we can do? That's right, President Obama, you're fired.That's an easy one. Thank you. Got a very enthusiastic person.So, Ted Cruz is a problem. He's got a problem. If you know Congressman Alan Grayson said he's going to bring a major suit. The suit is going to say that he wasn't born in this country. So, whether you like it or not, Ted has to figure it out. You can't be having a nominee if he got -- I think they're going to win very solidly, if you want to know the truth. If you get a nomination, you can't have the person who gets the nomination like Hillary Clinton, who might be sued. She'll be sued on the emails. The emails -- I mean, she should not be running. Oh, would I love to run against Bernie. I would love -- oh.I mean, can you imagine -- remember they took the microphone away. Get off the stage. They told him. This is our president. He goes like this. Oh, excuse me.And everyone's out there saying, get off the Mike. We wanted to hear him. He walked back like a little puppy. This is going to be our president. I would love please, FBI, please go after Hillary. I want to run against Bernie!Oh, that's a dream come true. This guy, he would make some president. 90 percent tax, everybody. Does anybody mind paying 90 percent? Because you go with Bernie, you'll have yourself a nice 90 percent tax. He wants to take it all away from you. He's sort of dampening it a little bit. He wants to keep it a little low key. He wants a big, fat, beautiful tax. And I don't think the people here are going to go for that very easily. But I want to run against Bernie. That's my dream. That's my dream.That's the one I really want. But Hillary will be fine. The poll just said, we beat Hillary. FOX poll just out, we beat Hillary. Honestly, we'll take anybody. With the people we have, with the movement we have, and we have, by far, the largest audiences and, in all fairness, Bernie is second, but way down by comparison to the audiences we get.We're going to Pensacola next week. They don't even know if they can have it in the whole -- I mean, they can -- the number of people showing up at Pensacola, it's unbelievable. But we had 20,000 people recently, 21,000, 35,000 in Mobile, Alabama. 20,000 in Dallas, Texas. The Maverick Arena filled up. It's unbelievable the crowds we get. And it's only determined by the size of the space.And I want to thank the fire marshal because he allowed a lot of people in here. They have people standing at doors. Nothing's going to happen, but people standing at the doors. But the fire marshals are the most important people to me because they let us get more people into the rooms. Every one of them, they've been great. I appreciate that.One thing I will say, just to finish, so I have a very strong immigration policy. When I brought up immigration, I mean, and it was brought up strongly in my speech, in my opening remarks. I said, wall and I said all sorts of things, right? That's good. Well, no, no, low key because I haven't really --No, no, low key. OK, ready? We will build a wall!Who's going to pay for the wall? Who?So you know what I'm saying. I've been saying this for a long time. Yesterday or two days ago, they showed me Ted's plan and it said -- he never said this. It said, it begins by building a wall. It's amazing how far people have come.I don't have any -- I mean, you remember how crazy it was. Macy's was -- we're a member of inclusion. We consider ourselves very inclusive, they would tell us. They got fined $650,000 for all sorts of discrimination and they're always being looked at. As soon as I -- it's not a big deal, folks, shirts and ties. Who cares? I didn't like the ties that much anyway. They were made in China.No, but how disloyal is Macy's? I tell people, don't shop there anymore. And their stock has tubed. You see what happened to their stock? Can I take credit, the fact they don't sell my shirts and ties there? The company went to hell.It's unbelievable.Oh, wow, wow, that's so nice, thank you, thank you, this man is a vet, is a vet, we love our vets. Thank you, everybody, sit down please. We had about 24 hours to put this together, it was very, very quick and we're here for some very special people and we're going to hear from some of them. But this is an honor, this is a really honor. And I didn't want to be here, I have to be honest, I wanted to be about five minutes away, and I've enjoyed that, I've enjoyed that, all the online polls said I've done very well with that with the debates, and I've had a kick with it. But you have to stick up for your rights, when you're treated badly, you have to stick up for your rights.You have to do it. And whether we like or not, whether it is something we want to do or not, and that's what our country has to do. I mean as an example, Iran, the way they've been treating us with all of this horrible -- this deal is one the worst deals I've ever seen negotiated under any circumstances. And we just take, we have to stick up for ourselves as people and we have to stick for our country when we are being mistreated. Remember that.And I have to go a little step further and say that Fox has been extremely nice the last number of hours actually. And they wanted me there and they said, how about now, they called a few minutes, how about now? Can you come over? I said hasn't it already started? And we actually thought what we'd do is we'd let them start and you know we wanted to be about 15 minutes into that hour so that by now they're all tuned -- oh, look at all the cameras like the Academy Awards, this is like the Academy Awards. This is the Academy Awards.We're actually told that we have more cameras than they do by quite a bit so that's sort of interesting, and you know what, that's really in honor of our vets, but they have been, they've been very nice and they wanted me to go and apologize and everything else, and they did apologize and they could not have been -- but once this started it's for our vets, there was nothing I could do. I don't know and you know what, I don't know. Is it for me personally a good thing, a bad thing, will I get more votes, will I get less votes? Nobody knows, who the hell knows but it's for our vets and you're going to like it because we raised over $5 million in one day.Over five million. So that's not so bad, you know, my whole theme is make America great again. And that's what we're going to do, and we wouldn't of even been here if it weren't for our vets, and our vets are being mistreated. Illegal immigrants are treated better in many cases than our vets, and it's not going to happen anymore, it's not going to happen anymore.So once this ball started rolling, we couldn't stop it and you see the house is packed and literally this took place less than 24 hours, we had less than 24 hours to do this. Because I said, listen, I'm not going to do the debate out of respect for myself, I won't do it because it would just be wrong. But I've got to -- you know, I love Iowa I'm here we've got to do something, I didn't know we were going to raise 5 million, we actually raised close to 6 to be totally honest. But and I have to say a lot more to come, you know, we set up a site, www. donaldtrumpforvets. com, forvets. com. And they've raised almost $500,000 just today so I think this money is just going to continue to pour in, and we have some incredible, incredible people. I do want to say, I do want call out some of the folks that gave a lot of the money. And then we're going to have somebody come up to speak whose an incredible speaker but much importantly it's the subject. Somebody that really, really understands what the vets are going through. But first we have to talk about people that made a lot of money, and they wouldn't have made a lot of money, they wouldn't even be here if it weren't for the vets and our great military. Because the military right, Phil, has a lot more guts than you do. Is that right? We have different kind of guts, right. So, Carl Icahn gave $500,000, one quick phone call, would $500,000 be OK? Richard LeFrak a great builder in New York gave a $100,000. Donald Trump another great builder in New York now a politician, I can't stand this -- a politician, I don't want to be called a politician. All talk, no action, I refuse to be called a politician. Donald Trump gave $1 million. OK.The Fischer family of New York gave $75,000, Howard Lorber a great fan and friend of our family, $100,000. A very, very rich man in New York, a very good friend of mine a very good person and he wants to be anonymous. The first time in his life, all his life he was out there. Now I said, do me a favor, could you give me a million bucks for this. He said, what. I said don't worry about it just give me a million. He said, no, no, at least tell me. I said it's for the vets, he said you got it. Is that good? Right? And he wanted to be anonymous, I don't know he's changed because you know what, you know who I'm talking about, two years ago -- yes?It really is too crazy, right. You know I tell the story, I love protests. I love protests at my rallies because you know here, this is a beautiful place but we have thousands of people outside that weren't as good in real estate as you folks I will tell you. But we have thousands of people outside trying to get in. We set up cameras, we set up screens, we have everything. But I will tell you, you look at that, I love the protesters in the big arenas because the cameras never move. They are always on my face. And I say to my wife, Melania, honey, stand up. She has to suffer through this.No, I go home, and it's always broadcast, you know they can never let me like the other politicians, nobody cares, nobody is covering them, look at this, it's like crazy. But I say, how did I do, she said, you were great. Were there many people there? I said what you mean there were 21,000, it is like in the Maverick's arena, or it was I remember in Alabama. Mobile, Alabama, we had 35,000 people -- by the way we get the biggest crowds by far. Much bigger than Bernie although I have to say that he is second, he is second, no other Republican. But we get the biggest crowds and she will say but they never show the crowd. And I say, would you mean they never show the crowd? And I realized they never turn the camera, and I always say, you know, I figured maybe they are fixed, these are new cameras that they can't turn. The only way you find out that they are not fixed, they are like pretzels the way they can turn them, is when you have a protester. You could have protesters up in the top and they are turned around sideways, they turn but they don't want to show the crowd. So it's one of those things.So we have a rich man from New York, a good guy who's become a little bit reclusive obviously, $1 million, he's a great guy. We have another unbelievable man, Ike Perlmutter from Marvel he did such an unbelievable job, one of the great, great men of our country in terms of business and talent. And he is giving, Ike and Mary Perlmutter, $1 million.J. J. Cafaro from Florida and from Cleveland, he's a man who made a lot of money in Cleveland, does a good job, and a fantastic man, $50,000. J. J., thank you.Another great friend of mine one of the most brilliant men you will ever meet, a phenomenal world class, you wouldn't even know it, he doesn't do that for a living, he makes money for a living in every way. You cannot make a deal with this guy and come out on top, it's impossible. In fact I'm thinking about him for China, how about him negotiating with China, OK? You know China this year in trade will make over $500 billion in terms of our trade deficit, $500 billion. That's no partnership and I'm a free trader, I love free trade, but we have to use our head, and we use political hacks to negotiate with the Chinese, and they have the smartest people. I deal with them all the time, I love the Chinese, they buy my apartments for millions, I have their largest bank in the world from China and one of my buildings. I love them.I'm not blaming the Chinese, I'm not angry at them, I'm angry other politicians because we have people that are incompetent running our country. Why should we be losing in trade deficits $500 billion a year? So it's not going to happen. So if I took a guy like this, put him in charge, his wife is so incredible, would you both come up? Mr. and Mrs. Phil Ruffin, come on up, come up.He's never had anything, it's like everything he touches turns to gold. Whatever deal he goes into, he bought a piece of land in Las Vegas, spent $110 million, he sold it a few years later and made plenty of money in between $41. 3 billion, right. Just about 1. 3. I think he says more. So when he gives $1 million it's like you know what that says, ten cents, but for him very important. Phil Ruffin, just say a couple of words.He actually sent me $1 million and he said there's 10 or 20 more of them, if you want it, if you need it, and I sent it back. I just can't stand. You know I am self funding my own campaign, right. I'm sorry. But all my life I made money, I made money, I've always been good making money, I think I have great imagination. But I made money. In all my life I did well. My father always said, everything you touch turns to gold, that's why I use the same expression on him because he was a guy believe me, fantastic guy. But he always said everything my boy touches turns to gold. And what happened is I turned all this money down, they're calling and calling. They want to give me money because being number one, they all want to control you. They want to give you money and now they call you, remember I gave you $5 million. I told the story about the Ford plant, about the Nabisco plant, so what happens is all my life and I am turning down millions. And I was in Iowa in a different location we had 4,000 people. And I went to those people and I said listen, I don't feel good about turning down money because my whole life I've been greedy, greedy, greedy. I grabbed all the money I can get, I'm so gritty but now I want to be greedy for the United States. I want to grab all that money. I'm going to be greedy for the United States.And it's true but I always felt guilty, so I'm in this beautiful place. The crowd is lovely. We have the most incredible people in this country in Iowa. But in this country, it's like a movement going on. The cover of Time magazine this week is a whole thing. It's a cover story. In fact, there it is. Hold that up. They have the back of my head with a massive crowd in front of me, and they are covering the story, and I said I didn't even know they were doing the story, and it's the cover of Time. They are talking about the movement. It is actually a movement. But what's happening is, I said to the crowd, let me ask you this one thing, supposing and I promise you I won't be influenced, could I take all this money. Because I am turning away so much money, stand up please, could I take all this money? And everybody went crazy, no, no, no. That was only one guy and he was in the back corner of the room, and he was a crooked looking guy. He was the only guy. He looked like such a crook. And he said, it's OK to take it and I look at that guy said, I don't want to have anything to do with that. That's the only guy.So I feel a little bit foolish not taking the money, but you look at a guy like Jeb Bush, he's taking -- low energy, is taking 120 -- extremely low, so I shouldn't say, he's debating right now, maybe he's doing great. He's probably looking for me, he's saying, has anyone seen Trump? Where's Trump, where is he? Where is he?Jeb, he's taken $128 million, people that I know, killers, killers, like him, killers, they put up $5 million, $2 million, $8 million. They are lobbyists, their special interests, they are not doing that for their health. And whenever we have a problem you know a lot of times, I was telling the other day because I know most lobbyists, I mean I've used them. I was on the other side. Seven months ago I was on the other side, I was a big giver, but I know these people, and I said, believe me when they 6 million, 5 million 1 million, they are not just doing it. They want something for it. And when you see these horrible deals that are being made, and they are horrible. The politicians aren't that stupid. You think they are horrible, you say, I was a possible letter Iran just got $150 billion from this country on one of the dumbest deals ever. And they just went out and their first purchase is a 114 Airbus jets, not Boeing jets.And then we have from France and from other countries in Europe, and think of it, and then go to Russia, they are buying missiles. And somebody said you know the 24 days, they have 24 days but the clock doesn't start ticking for almost so it could be forever. They actually do a self inspections, can you imagine it. And we didn't get our prisoners, I call them hostages. We didn't get them back and then we get the money, so we paid $150 billion sets such a bad tone for kidnapping, that it is a disgrace. So who would believe this, who would believe what's going on? But when you see that Airbus gets our jets, Russia gets the missiles which by the way they are not supposed to be ordering, just so you understand. Big order, missiles and other things from Russia, everybody is getting the money but us. But when you see the politicians and you say, man, that's a bad deal. That's such a stupid deal. How can anybody be so stupid?The reason is the politicians are being taken care of by their lobbyists and their special interests, that have interests with Airbus, that have interests with Russia and missiles, that have Airbus with all of these people that are taking at $150 billion. Now one of the things, and by the way, Mike Huckabee sitting right here, Governor, get up for a second, get up.Great guy, and Rick Santorum, Senator, where is Rick? Rick.And fellows come up for a second, but just so you understand, and these two are not in that category, come on up, Rick, come on up, Governor. They are the only two politicians, they would never do anything like this. Come on. Come on up. Look.Stand up here. And Mrs. Huckabee, and Rick's daughter, stand up, stand up.So these two people do not fit, they would never ever have done anything like that. But when you see deals that are so bad, believe me they are not bad for the politician, they are bad for the country, and that's why I don't take anything. I don't take anything. We're going to do what's right. We're going to do what's right for the country. OK, thank you. I want to ask Rick and Mike to say a few words. I heard they did really well these two, and who the hell knows I didn't get the see very much of it. I said how did they do? I think if we did poorly you probably wouldn't be here right now, did go back and you'd be depressed right? So Rick say a few words, Mike say a few words. We'd love it.Two amazing people, really great people, I've gotten to know them very well, being on the trail as they say, and I'm very happy with what's going on the trail, I've had an amazing period of time. And I'm not going to be doing polls tonight usually I like to get and do polls, and everybody even Mike would say, why do you keep doing those polls? I say because they are so good, you know when you -- but we've had amazing polls in Iowa, we've had amazing polls no matter where we have been, and we are leading now by a substantial margins in Iowa and every single state. We are leading every national poll because people...People are tired and they are sick of seeing what's going on with our country, how incompetently we are run, how are military is being decimated, and for tonight you know as an example what's happening tonight. You see the kind of love in this room, there is amazing love, the veterans are the most amazing, the warmest, the best people. And we are going to take care about veterans. So I just think it's great. So I'm going to introduce somebody who's going to speak for little while, and I said take your time he's going to introduce a couple of his friends, but he's been through a lot, and John Wayne Walding I think a lot have heard, actually become a very famous person, he should be much more famous than me because he's a lot more courageous than I am. I will say either financially courageous, but the other stuff I don't know I'm so good.So he spent 12 years in the United States Army, with seven of those years being in the 3rd Special Forces Group, top of line at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. He has combat deployments to both Iraq and Afghanistan, and during his career at the Third Special Forces Group, really the elite, these are the best. He worked on a Special Forces operator, and as an operator at the sniper detachment and as a sniper instructor. He is a phenomenal world-class marksman, his military school experience includes special operations, target, interdicting courses, special forces advanced urban combat. Not easy, third SFG advanced sniper Special Forces qualifications courses, and airborne and air assault. He's got every single thing in the book. John's awards and badges include Silver Star, Bronze Star, Purple Heart, Combat Infantry badge, Airborne Air Assault and Air Special Forces tag.John participated in numerous battles during his deployment most famous of all was the battle of Shok valley which was a tough one, a really tough one, unbelievable bad results and brilliant results, the victory was brilliant but tremendous, tremendous carnage. Which you can read about in the new book, No Way Out -- a story of valor in the mountains of Afghanistan, John lost a leg. He is an amazing guy, and I heard him speak once before, I was so impressed I just asked him to come up over and say a few words, and also introduce you're very brave friends. Come on up, John Wayne, come on.You're worth it.That was amazing. Isn't that better than this debate that's going on, right. They're all sleeping, they're all sleeping, everybody. You know I see two of my friends in the audience and they become very famous and very rich, come on Diamond and Silk, get up here for a second. Diamond and Silk, these two are unbelievable. Melania called me, she said, you know there is somebody that is so amazing came here, you have to see this, I came I watch these two incredible women, these two beautiful women and they were going rapid back-and-forth. Never ends.Mercy.All right, thank you, I don't know. You know I really believe we took them into a room and just talk to them it would be fine. They would understand. We want strength, we want good healthcare, we want protection, we want borders, we want the wall, we want the wall. But if we could sit with them for about 10 minutes maybe, maybe they'd understand. Say, hello.I'll tell you what, they are something, those two. Right? Was it something? They've become a sensation all over the Internet, all over everything and we really appreciate it. So just to sum up we have an amazing country, we need strong leadership, we need compassionate leadership, we have to take care of our healthcare, we have to take care of our borders, we have to make our military so strong, so big, so powerful that nobody messes with us. We are never going to have to use it. We want nobody, nobody to mess with us.All over and I tell the story all the time, I see are general they are always on talk shows, the retiring and even when they're not, they are talking about where the enemy is, I don't want journals that talk, I want generals and so do you folks, I want generals that have action. I want Gen. George Patton, we want Gen. MacArthur, we want generals we want people that are going to keep us safe.So I just say this we are a country that doesn't win anymore, we don't win anymore. When was the last time we won? We don't win on trade. We don't win on the military. We don't beat ISIS. We don't do anything, we're not good, we are just not the same place. We are going to win so much. We are going to win at the military, we are going to win at the border, we are going to win on trade, we're going to get rid of Obamacare and come up with great, great powerful, wonderful healthcare.We are going to win again, I tell you what, we're going to win again, we're going to win at every single level. And we are not to be laughed out throughout the rest of the world because believe me they laugh at our stupidity, they cannot believe what's happening. We send weapons over to our allies, a gun is fired into the air, they hear one sound of the bullet, they drop the weapons, the enemy takes them and now people come back from the Middle East and they tell me, Mr. Trump, they have better weapons than we do, they have the new versions, they have the best weapons, the enemy. Not going to happen anymore. It's not going to happen anymore, I will tell you.So this is a special night for me and I had no idea this was going to happen, we started out literally 24 hours ago maybe less, we had no idea and we went out. We set up the website, I called some friends. And we just cracked, the sign was just given. We just cracked $6 million, $6 million.And we have outside a list of the organizations and folks that are going to be getting this money, were going to divided up into going to get a lot of money, everybody's going to get a lot of money, and they are really great and we watched it. We were very careful in selecting because the costs are down, but the people are really doing good with the heart, the heart is so important and we have picked out some really amazing, amazing veterans organizations.So this is turned out to be a much different evening, I thought this would be small I didn't even know if it was going to happen, and it turned out to be a phenomenal, a phenomenal night. I've gotten to meet some incredible veterans, I've gotten to meet John Wayne and your friends, and they are something, I'm not going to mess with them, OK. And I want to thank my entire family, I'll tell you, Vanessa and Don and Jared, big success, right, Don, Jared, he's doing good. And Ivanka is going to have a baby in two weeks, in fact we have a hospital all lined up and you know what I'm doing great, I love the people of Iowa but I said, Ivanka, it would be so great if you had your baby in Iowa. It would be so great, I would definitely win.Stand up honey say hello, say hello.Oh, I want that to happen. I want that to happen so badly, and Lara and my boy, Eric, who has just been fantastic, and my staff, it's just been great, and again, thank you sir for the $1 million and I'll tell you what, special guy and we love them. So just end, an amazing evening, you veterans are incredible people, brave beyond comprehension. And I just want to on behalf of your body in this country, in Iowa but in this country, I want to thank you for the job you do, because without you we would not be here tonight. Thank you all very much. Fantastic people, thank you everybody. Thank you very much.You look at our budgets. You look at our spending. We can't beat ISIS. Obamacare is terrible; we're going to terminate it. We're going to absolutely terminate it and replace it. I mean, you look at everything. Our borders are like Swiss cheese. This man has done such a bad job, he has set us back so far, and for him to say that actually is a great compliment, if you want to know the truth.And we just got a call on the coming over. The bridge is, like, packed just so you understand. We were, like, in that car a long time. But we just gave -- one of the major networks called, and they wanted to respond. And I said, "You're lucky I didn't run the last time when Romney ran, because you would have been a one-term president." That was my statement to him.And you know, I was backing McCain when he ran, and you know, frankly that was going to be a tough one to win, because a lot of things were going wrong. For a Republican to win that one was tough, in all fairness to John McCain.We should have won the Romney one, because we had a failed president. We had a country that was failing. And we should have won that one. So I backed Romney; I backed McCain; both lost. And this is what I said very simply. I said, "We're going to do it ourselves. We're going to do it right. We're going to win. We're not going to take this stuff anymore. We're going to do it right, and we're going to make America great again."You know, our whole theme is make America great again. And that's what the whole deal is. We're going to make America great again.Well, first of all, I think the World Trade Center would be standing, I will tell you, because if you read my book "The America We Deserve," I have a whole, you know, paragraph or two about Osama bin Laden. And one of the big hosts of one of the shows said, "I don't believe it. You know, Trump was talking about Osama bin Laden two years before the World Trade Center came down."Now, I wasn't even a politician. I was a businessperson, like a lot of you people. And -- but I've always been very interested and fascinated by it.And I saw this guy and I watched this guy. I read about him, and I said he's trouble. He's big trouble. And believe me, I would have done something about it.The other thing is the terrorists that knocked down the buildings, if you look, the terrorists that knocked down those buildings were in Florida and different places, and they were all working on flying and working on different things. If that had happened with me, it wouldn't have happened with me. We would have had strong policies in place where they wouldn't have been here. They wouldn't have been in the country. Certainly, many of them wouldn't have been here. We would have somehow found a way to stop it.As far as Clinton is concerned, he had a shot at Osama bin Laden. And I assume that's what your question really refers to. And he didn't take the shot. He had a shot at taking out. I don't know if you know this. But they were telling him -- and for some reason, and he never explained it properly -- he didn't take out Osama bin Laden. And had he done that, you would have had the World Trade Center standing. You wouldn't have lost thousands.I have friends to this day, they're -- they're dying. They've been dying for years with the problems of the World Trade Center and the coming down of the World Trade Center. So Clinton should have taken the shot. He -- he had everything going. And for some reason he decided not to. You'll have to ask him. Very sad.So nobody has been treated with less respect than our veterans. And I really mean that. These are our greatest people. The wounded warriors, the veterans, these are our great people. And I mean, their attitude is incredible.But you look at what's going on and you look at the suicide rate, which is record-setting in the history of our country. And so much of it has to do with the scandal of the Veterans Administration. And it's corrupt; it's incompetent. It's everything that can be bad about anything. It's everything that can be bad about government.And President Obama hasn't done a damn thing. He's poured more money, but he has people running it that shouldn't be running anything. And we are going to make the Veterans Administration so good, so proper. It's going to be run so well. We've got some -- I've got some of the best people in the world to run it already. They're talking to me about it. We need great managers.But I'll tell you what we need. When a veteran is waiting in a waiting room for six days and can't get a doctor and ends up dying, you know, it's a lot of them -- you talk about a suicide. A lot of them wait for doctors, and they die before they get to see a doctor, for what could be a simple procedure, what could be a prescription. And this is what's happening.We are going to give them the right. And I cover this very strongly, very, very strongly in my -- in my -- you know, we put in policy and it's covered. I think it's very simple, actually. But they are going to be able to go outside to private doctors, private hospitals, public hospitals, wherever they have to go. Because different places have different -- different ways of making you better. And we will pay for it and it's going to be a really good system. It's going to be less expensive, and they're going to end up getting greater service. And we're going to make a determination.But it's something that's so simple. This is something that's so simple that I can't believe it hasn't been done. But they are going to get great service immediate on the spot. Folks, they're waiting four, five and six days. Can you imagine yourselves put in that position? If I have to wait 12 minutes for a doctor I'm like, "What's going on here?" These people are waiting.And you know, sometimes they get there; and the doctors are there. The doctor leaves or they go on vacation. They go home. We can't let it happen to our veterans. We have to take care of our veterans and we're going to take care of them really well.Well, I think -- I'm always talking about McArthur and Patton, and the great generals, the relatively modern-day generals. These were great people, and we have people like that. When you go to the West Point, when you go to Annapolis or the Air Force Academy, we have these incredible young people there growing and growing and growing. And we have them all throughout our armed services. We have such talent that it's amazing. But we're not using our talent.And we're also not running it with the generals. We're running it through the White House. We're at a war. And we're -- I mean, I've known many cases, and I'm hearing about them all the time where we're ready to knock out the enemy, and they get a call, "Do not do it. Do not do it."Look, we're in a war where people are cutting off the heads of Christians and everybody else. This is like Medieval times. We're dealing in Medieval times. If you remember the date -- the debate from just before the last one, where they were talking about torture, and they were talking about waterboarding, and they asked Ted Cruz, who I think is totally unfit to be president, but these are minor details. I really mean that. I think this guy -- a senator just came out today, a senator from Oklahoma who's a very highly-respected senator, says he's one of the most dishonest people he's ever worked with. A hell of a statement. I've never even heard a statement like that. And a respected, one of the most respected senators.But if you look at all the -- you know, the different things we have to do, we have to get back and we have to get back on line and we have do it right.We're not doing things right anymore. We're not winning anymore. We don't have our right people anymore. We have great -- I love General Douglas McArthur. He's always been somebody I've studied and I respect. General George Patton.We have to win. We have to beat ISIS. Again, it's like we're living in Medieval times. We're living in Medieval times. We never heard -- James Foley, all of a sudden, you heard a head chopped off. We haven't -- I don't think anybody's ever heard of that before. Now all of a sudden, it's routine. You see them dropping cages in the ocean and pulling them back up half an hour later, steel cages. We've got to do it.I was against -- I should get points for vision, because I was totally against the war in Iraq, as you probably know, Van. But I was totally against the war in Iraq. I said it's going to destabilize the Middle East. And it totally destabilized it. And in 2003, 2004, they wrote about it. I would talk about it before that.But again, I was -- you know, I was a businessman. I wasn't a politician. But I just said it's going to destabilize the Middle East. Well, it did. It did. And points doesn't matter -- you get points. But of all the people running I was the one that didn't want to do it, and I felt strongly about it.Well, now the Middle East is destabilized. You have the migration. You look at Germany. You look at all of these countries. It's a disaster what's going on over there.And by the way, we should build a safe zone in Syria. And we cannot take any people in this country. We have no idea where they come from. We have -- we have no idea where they come from. We can't vet them at all.And you look at the migration, you look at all the young men, I mean, you look and there are so many young strong men. People talk about it. and very -- I mean, relatively few women and few children. This could be the ultimate Trojan horse. So we can't do it. Safe zone and get the Gulf states to pay for it. And I would lead that. Who's better at building than I am?But we cannot let these people come into the United States. One of the things that has happened is I have definitely been the focus on if you talk about illegal immigration. When I,- on June 16, I talked about illegal immigration. We're going to build a wall. We're going to have strong borders, and that sort of morphed into this, because here's another element of it, which is probably even a stronger element of it. You saw what happened with the two radicals that got -- they got radicalized. They're married. They killed 14 people, and these people gave them wedding parties and things. And they killed them. They walked in, they killed them. We cannot let this happen. We cannot let these people come in under any circumstances. It can't happen.We have to have a strong country again. We have to be vigilant and we have to be smart. And if we're not vigilant and if we're not smart, we're going to have troubles like you've never seen before. Just look at what's happening over in Europe. It is a disaster.... So it's so important. You getting out to vote. It's just so important because our country has been taken away from us. It's going so fast.And you know, you're talking about Second Amendment because I was asking with Randy and a lot of people, I was talking to some of the people before, "What would you like me to focus on?" and they said, "Just Second Amendment. Second Amendment."Now, the Second Amendment means a lot of other things too... The Second Amendment in under siege. You know that. You know that very well.We lost a great Supreme Court justice and nobody thought this was going to be part of the equation. And all of a sudden if somebody gets in that's the wrong person, they'll take away that Second Amendment so fast your head will spin.You see Bloomberg is somebody that wants to knock out the Second Amendment. Hillary is a disaster on the Second Amendment. No, they want to take it away.So, it's just not going to happen. It's not going to happen.... But we lost our wonderful justice who was a great man and a great Second Amendment person.I just heard coming up, you know, the Senators. We've been very disappointed. I'm a Republican. Many of you are Republicans. But we're not being protected whether it's a budget. You saw the budget that was approved a month ago. It was approved by the Republicans. They gave it away. They gave Obama everything.So Obama wants to put in a Supreme Court judge. He said he wants -- he's going to be a very negative person to guns because that's the way it is, OK? Believe me, that will be the way it is. And basically they don't have the right to do that.But I keep saying, "Well, are the Republicans going to fail or are they going to crack? What's going to happen?" And coming up today, I hear, "Well, there could be a way of Obama pushing it through." Here we go, right? Here we go.Same thing you heard with Obamacare. It's going to be defeated. It's going to be repealed. We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Believe me.But -- I mean, look what's going on with your premiums. 35%, 45%, 55% up. Your deductible is so high. I mean, you've got to see that truck right there? You've got to get hit by that truck in order to ever use it.So, I come up and I'm hearing that Obama now who said by the way yesterday, "Donald Trump will not be the president. He will not be." No, it's a compliment. Look, he's been perhaps the worst president in the history of the United States. So it's a compliment.But he was all over the place yesterday. Said, "Donald Trump will not be -- " I think we have maybe a little surprise in store, and we start right here in South Carolina.You know, New Hampshire was so amazing. We had a big, big victory in New Hampshire. Amazing people.And then we come down here and I said, "You know, I think we have an ever bigger lead over here."And the people have been incredible no matter where we go to speak. Even this. I know that four years ago, you had about 200 people here for the same kind of thing for your frontrunner and he's a good frontrunner, a good guy, and he did well but you had 400 people, 200 people. You have thousands of people here and we just appreciate it, and I won't forget it. Believe me, I'm not going to forget it. I'm not going to forget it.So I hear that they're talking about trying to get a liberal judge and a judge that does not like the Second Amendment and a judge that -- and this is one of many. This is one of many but a judge that doesn't want to do a number on the guns and that doesn't know how important it is.We're just not going to let it happen. OK? It's not going happen. And if we elected, we know that. But we have 9 months, 10 months to go. We have to have the Republicans hold fast because I'm just hearing these little cracks, saying "Well, maybe if he appoints somebody, maybe we could get along, maybe." It's not the way it's supposed to be.Now, it's possible that they'll have their wish because if they win, they're going to be having their choice. But if they don't win, we're going to start really taking back because we have 3 or 4 or 5 maybe Supreme Court judges. This was not supposed to be one in question. This was a very sad circumstance that happened with -- I mean, really to me it was a very sad circumstance. But now we're going to see what happens.I will only tell you this. We are doing well. We have a really good chance to win. If we can win in South Carolina, we're going to go -- I mean, we could very well run the table.I don't know if you saw -- I guess a lot of you have seen actually next week in Nevada. It's going to be phenomenal. The relationship there to the people... Bush is 1% in Nevada. This guy -- why doesn't he just give up, just go home? Go home. Go home to mom. Got to go home to mommy. You know, Bush is only at 1% in Nevada. A couple of them are, you know, at 10%, 11%, or 12%. I'm at like 40% something -- 48%. So I think we're going to do well.Then I think we have the SEC. We're going to have the SEC, which is going to be I think amazing.But really now we're starting. New Hampshire could not have been better. They gave us a tremendous send-off. They really started us on our way.And we did well in Iowa. I mean, some votes were stolen from Ben Carson, which by the way was a disgrace. What Cruz -- what this guy Cruz did with Ben Carson was an absolute disgrace. What he did was -- he stole. It's theft. And then they come out with a voter violation form, which is a fraud as far as I'm concerned. And what he did with that whole thing was a disgrace. So we're not going to let that stuff happen anymore. I mean, we're not going to let it. We will not let it happen. We're all watching. You're all watching. Keep your eyes wide open.These politicians -- here's a guy, he raises the Bible and yet he tells fibs, he tells lies, and then he does this stuff to Carson and he does other things. Very bad.So politicians are bad people. Boy, they are bad. Would you believe it?So we're not going to let it happen and we're going to get in there... So Saturday. Go out and vote. This is going to be the place that's really going to make it.And honestly, I've been watching all the pundits. Now, the bad news is they're always wrong. They all said I'm not running and I ran. Well, how is he going to do? He's just doing this for fun. I'm not doing this for fun. Believe me, I love this location but I know I can be someplace else. OK? I could be someplace else right now. I could be very happy.We are going to win again. You know, we don't win very much. You're very smart, tough people. You like to win. Right? This guy over here. You like to win. And we don't win anymore. We used to win. We don't win anymore. Well, we're going to start winning again. We're going to start winning again.So, Second Amendment protected. Common Core. We're going to end Common Core. We're bringing your education locally. It's going to be fabulous. I don't know if you know or if you've heard me say we have the absolute worst -- we spend number one in the world on education. Right? Number one per pupil in the world. There is no second place because we're so high, so much -- you have China, you have Norway, you have Denmark, you have Sweden. You have these countries are the best in terms of education and they're on the list the best. And the 30th in the top 30 -- we're number 30th. OK? We're number one in costs.That's a little bit like what I'm doing. I'm the least spent money. You know, I'm funding my own campaign. Right? So, I don't have a lot of the people coming to me. You know, the drug companies and all of the -- because if you would see the kind of waste, fraud, and corruption in the United States, a lot of it isn't really waste, fraud, and corruption. It's the fact that people that are running against me and people in the Senate, people in Congress, they have tremendous power because they have people giving them unbelievable campaign contributions and they're special interests and they do what those people want. And that's one of the reasons why our budget is out of whack, the military is out of whack. The military orders equipment they don't even want and the stuff they do want they don't get because the company that makes that equipment is like, you know, it's not politically adept, and companies that really are, they make the equipments we don't want. It's going to all change because I'm not getting any money from all of these people. I don't give a damn. I mean, we're going to do the right thing. We're going to absolutely do the right thing.I'll tell you a little story. So the drug companies. We are the largest purchasers of drugs in the world, the United States... which makes a lot of sense I guess. But we purchase more drugs that make you better, drugs that make you better, not the kind of drugs that come over the southern border, which we're going to end. OK? We're going to build a wall. Yup. Folks, by the way, we're going to build a wall and who's going to pay for the wall?You better believe it. We have a trade deficit with Mexico of $58 billion. And these characters come up, these politicians that I'm running against, "You don't really think Mexico is going to pay for the wall?" I said, "Absolutely, 100%." They said, "How are you going to get Mexico to pay?" And I don't want to get into it because they won't understand it. I mean, they have no concept of business. They have no -- you know, the $150 billion we gave to Iran, these people have no concept.We have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. OK? The wall is going to cost $12 billion. Maybe less. If I build it, it'll be taller, better, and less. OK?So you think of this. So you think of this. So they said, "How are you going to possibly do it?"They make so much money. Plus we give them subsidy. They make so much money from the United States it's going to be one of the easiest things.And I don't know if you've heard, one of the presidents or ex-presidents of Mexico held a news conference. He said, "We will never ever, ever pay for the wall." And the press called me. They said, "They said they will never pay for the wall." I said, "Who was it?" Calderon. He's very nice, good guy. I said, "Tell him the following. The wall just got 10 feet higher." I mean it. It got 10 feet higher. Yeah, they're going to pay for it.And I get along great with Mexico. The problem is -- I mean, they buy apartments. I have hundreds and hundreds and even thousands of workers are Hispanics who I'm doing great with. We have such an amazing relationship with Hispanics and they're great people.The problem is the leaders of Mexico are too smart for our leaders. They're too smart. They're too cunning.You look at what's going on. It's unbelievable. The border is a disaster. It's a sieve. People flow over. It's not going to happen anymore, folks. People can come into our country but they're going to come in legally. They're going to come in through a process. They're going to come in, they're going to come in legally.So with trade, we're going to solve the trade problem. I don't know if you saw Carrier air conditioner announced two days ago they're moving to Mexico. Nabisco. They're moving their big plant from Chicago to Mexico. Ford, they're moving this massive complex -- they're building a $2.5 billion plant and now they've just announced they're building it bigger.I've been talking about this for two years. Yesterday, the Wall Street Journal, they announced they're building it bigger. In another words, they're doubling down. You know why? Nobody does anything about it. I'm going to do something about it.So I watched -- somebody asked, "What would you do about Carrier?" Because that was a sad case. Somebody used their cell phone and they were telling them, "You're out of work. You're out of job. Forget it. It's over. We're moving to Mexico." Are crying. Grown men that have been there for a long time. Really incredible people. And they're crying and they're devastated and they lost their job and they've never had another job and now this plant -- this whole thing is moving to Mexico.And they said, "What would you do?" I said I'll tell you what I'm going to do because you know they talk about free trade. I'm a free trader. But I say oh if I put a tax on these characters -- these idiots. I mean, they're like stupid. They say "Donald Trump is not a true conservative because he taxes." It's got to be fair stuff, folks. It's got to be fair. I'm a conservative person.Hey, I'm the most conservative on the border. I'm the most conservative with the military. Nobody's tougher than me. I'm the most conservative. We are going to make our military so big, so strong, so powerful, nobody's ever going to mess with us, folks. We won't have to use it.I'm the most conservative on taking care of the vets. Our vets are treated horribly. We're going to take care of our -- I'm the most conservative on Common Core. We're ending Common Core -- I told you that -- and we're moving it locally. And nobody is more conservative and we call toughness but nobody is more conservative on the Second Amendment. So all of these things.But with Carrier... they're coming across and they're going to build a plant and probably get some subsidies from Mexico -- probably -- we've probably given them subsidies. They probably have the United States giving subsidies to move out of the country. That's how stupid it is and that's how stupid we're running... They said, "What would you do?" I say it's very easy. We call them. We say let's have a meeting. Here's the story folks. You're moving to Mexico. Congratulations. But if you don't stay in the United States you're going to have a problem. But here's what you do it. You want to move to Mexico, build your factory, it's going to be wonderful. Hire your people they're not from the United States. All those people are now looking for jobs. Those are good jobs. You know we're hiring a lot of part-timers now... The numbers are totally phony. The 5% -- totally phony numbers. So I say here's what we're going to do. Very simple. You build your plant in Mexico. Enjoy yourselves. And you're going to have air conditioners and just have them cross the border and sell them to the United States? No, you're going to pay a 35% tax on every air conditioner. It's true. It's the only thing you can do.And you know what? It's the only thing you can do. There's nothing else. Because otherwise how are you going to get them to stop?And then you have the devaluation with China. The all-time. They're like grand chess masters or grand -- I mean these people are the greatest -- the greatest in history. They're grandmasters of that -- devaluation. They devalue their currency.Japan is doing very well too. They're killing Caterpillar. You know, they're ordering Komatsu tractors now because they've devalued -- look, you take a look at what's happened to the Yen and it's very hard. A friend a mine. He's a big excavator. You all know excavators. I love excavators. This guy's a very big one. He buys Caterpillar tractors all the time and excavators. He just put in a big order for Komatsu. Not that he wanted to. He said, "Donald, they made it impossible for me not to buy. They've devalued the yen to such an extent -- Japan -- that it made it, I mean, I owe it to my family, to my company, to myself. I have no choice." And he was like depressed. He wanted to buy Caterpillar...Well China is doing that times 100, times 1,000, and what they're doing is the devaluation of their currency makes it impossible for people to compete. We can't allow that stuff to happen.Look, when we send stuff over to China, it doesn't get in. If it does get in, you have to pay a big tax. You know, it's not supposed to be that way. You know, it's supposed to be free trade. It's supposed to be they come we go, back and forth. They devalued their currency and on top of it, they make it impossible.I have a friend who's a great manufacturer. He said it's virtually impossible to get his goods and he makes better stuff than they do. He can't get his goods into China. When he does get them in, there's a tax to pay.I have a friend who actually bought an airplane and he can't get it into China because the tax is so massive. He's going to sell it now at a big loss. OK?And think about Boeing. OK? Think about Boeing. Boeing is building a plant over here. Boeing just had a big order from China. But China is making them build a massive airline facility. Right? Massive. Like bigger than anything you've seen.OK, you feel good about Boeing right now. Tell me in five years. Unless I'm president. You'll be fine. Don't worry about it. But tell me in five years you're going to feel good about Boeing because I'll tell you what's happening. They are going to build that plant -- they're building it, it's going to be finished soon -- they're going to build that plant, they're going to devalue the hell out of their currency, and all of a sudden you'll be reading a big front page story all over the place that Boeing is going to leave, right, South Carolina, they're going to make all their planes in China. Because this is what they do. That's what they do. And our leaders aren't smart enough to stop it, OK?I have Carl Icahn endorse me. Great businessman, very rich guy, very, very successful. If I told Carl, Carl, watch over China trade, we're going to be in great shape.We have right now people that have no concept of what they're doing. They have no concept of what they're doing. They're political hacks. That's what they are. They're political hacks and these are the people that are negotiating with these people China. And again, China likewise, I get along great with China. Largest bank in the world my tenant. They buy condos for tens of millions of dollars. I have the Bank of America building in California. I own a big chunk of that. I got that through China through a very complex set of transactions but through China.I mean, I think China is terrific. I'm not angry at China. I'm angry at our leaders for not being able to compete with China. I'm not angry.So we're going to get things changed around. We're going to use our best people. We're going to be so smart, and we're going to start winning again. We're going to have strong borders. We're going to have strong military. We're going to take care of our vets. We're going to have such great trade deals. We're going to win again. We're going to win again. We're going to win so much.And you know, and by the way, we are going to get rid of ISIS and we're going to get rid of them fast.I was against the war in Iraq from the beginning. I was against the war in Iraq. We shouldn't have done it. We did it. Then Obama got out the wrong way. We shouldn't have done Iraq. We did it. It destabilized the Middle East. Exactly. If you go back, you could see 2003, 2004, I said it's going to totally destabilize the Middle East because you had Iran and Iraq and they were the same militarily. They'd fight, fight, fight. Boom. Then they'd rest. Then they'd fight, fight, fight for years and years and years. We decapitated Iraq and now Iran is taking over. Not only do they get the $150 billion. Maybe the worst transaction I've ever seen negotiated. No, no, don't buy the famous Obama administration.The worst, one of the dumbest deals I've ever seen. I mean, we get nothing. We get nothing.We should have gotten those hostages before we started even negotiating. Not now. We should have gotten them years ago.But if you look at what's going on and now on top of that we gave them Iraq because Iran is now taking over Iraq. It's just taking them over.So here's what we did. We spent $2 trillion, thousands of lives lost, wounded warriors who we all love all over the place. They're the best people. Most incredible. They're tougher than all of us these people. I mean, what they've gone through. So the wounded warriors all over the place. You know what we have? We have nothing. We have nothing. We have absolutely nothing. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to change things around. We're going to be smart. And we have -- we'll do what we have to do in terms of ISIS and all. But we have to start rebuilding our country.We have $4 trillion in the various places. $4 trillion. Not going to happen anymore.We're going to have a strong military. But we're going to have to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals.I mean, our country is like a third world country. You go over to Qatar, you go over to some of these places in the Middle East. You go to China. You see the airports. You see the bridges. They have bridges that are so incredible you've never seen anything like it. They have railroad trains that go 350 miles an hour and we have things that go chug, chug, chug, chug like from 100 years ago.We've become like a third world nation because we're fighting everybody else's battles. And remember this, we are like the policemen of the world but we don't get paid anything. We protect Germany. We protect Japan. Do you know that in Japan if we get attacked, we have a treaty with Japan, if we get attacked they don't have to do anything. If they get attacked, we have World War III, we have to protect them. OK? I mean, who makes these deals?We protect as an example South Korea, who have a maniac right next to them. Right? But we protect South Korea. So every time we order televisions, they come from South Korea, they make a fortune. We protect South Korea. Let me tell you something. Why aren't they paying? They pay peanuts for what we do.Every time this guy, you know, raises his head, we see our ships start to sail, our soldiers get ready. We have 28,000 soldiers at the border.So we take care of the world. We don't get it.Saudi Arabia, before the oil went down, they were making $1 billion a day. $1 billion a day. And we rent space there so we can help them. We rent military bases. We pay rent. And yet without us they wouldn't last for two weeks. They'd be gone.So we're going to change all that stuff folks. I mean, I want to be good. We want to be fair. We want to have heart. And we're not going to let these Syrian folks in that we don't know who they are. We don't know where they come from. They're not coming into this country. They're not coming in.I mean, there are a lot of them. I don't know if you know it. You have a lot of them moving into South Carolina. I don't know. Have you heard this? And you ought to tell your governor don't let them move to South Carolina. You don't want them in South Carolina.And I know they'll say, "Well, we have nothing to do. We're state government." Let me tell you something. If a governor from a state didn't want to have them, I don't care what it says, you don't have to have them...We want to help them with safe zones. We want to get the Gulf States to pay. I don't want to pay. We owe $19 trillion. We owe enough. We can lead it but let the Gulf States -- they have so much money they don't know what to do with it. Let them build safe zones.Look at what's happening in Germany. It's a mess. Look at Sweden. Look at Brussels. I mean, Brussels, you go there 20 years ago, 15 years ago it was incredible.So when I call for moratoriums and I call for this, first I get hit with tremendous heat. Right? Then everybody starts to say, "You know, he's right."Same thing -- on June 16th, I announced we've got to stop illegal immigration. The heat I took was unbelievable. Three, four weeks later they're all saying, you know, Trump is right. Then Kate killed in San Francisco, beautiful Kate, by an illegal immigrant. You have Jamiel in Los Angeles killed. Incredible guy. Young man. The father's a friend of mine -- a great guy. You had the veteran -- 65-year-old woman -- a veteran raped, sodomized, and killed in Los Angeles by an illegal immigrant. We've got to stop it folks. We've got to stop it. We've got to be smart. We've got to be a country again. We've got to be a country again.So I just want to thank -- this endorsement meant so much to me from these two guys and from the whole community. I just want to say get out and vote. We're going to do something you're going to be so happy with. We're going to win so much and we're going to make America great again. That's what we want to do. Make America great again. So Saturday, get out and vote. Thank you! We love you all. Thank you very much! Thank you. Thank you very much folks.Anybody know? Who is club champion here? Club champ? Who is club champ? I want to fight them. I want to beat them.Well, I just want to thank you. Built by the same people. I have Doonbeg in Ireland, and it's a sister to Kiawah. Same people. They did a beautiful job. And I bought it a number of years ago. And during the down touch in Ireland, I made a good investment, and it's an incredible place. So Doonbeg. Do you know about Doonbeg?Most of you do, yeah. We spent a lot of money making it perfecto and now it's doing great.But I don't care about that stuff any more. That's like small potatoes, right? I'll let my kids run and have fun with it. And let my executives have a good time. But I don't care about it. I care about making America great again. That's what I care about.And we can do it. You know, I go all over the world, and I see different things and different countries. And I meet different people. And honestly, there's nothing like what we have. You come back and there's nothing like what we have.And we go to Dallas and we had 21,000 people, and Oklahoma had 20,000 people twice. And we have the biggest crowds no matter where we go. We were in Tampa a couple weeks ago, and just a couple days' notice, we filled up the stadium. It was packed. And no matter where it is, it's been amazing.And I have to tell you, South Carolina is some great place. I love it. I've been here so much. I love it.-- everyone, tall, short, we won every category. We won the highly educated and not so well-educated. And we were just rocking. And I guess we got 36 percent. And that was with a lot of people. So it was a big -- we win by 20 points. So it was a great, great week that I spent there. And I've spent a lot of time here now, and I'll be staying here until Sunday morning. And hopefully, we'll be celebrating together on Saturday evening. And -- that's where we were.I mean, the big thing is, so, so, so important, get out and vote. I'm self-funding my campaign. You people are all rich. You probably say why is he doing that? Why? But I'm self-funding my campaign, putting up my own money. And it's expensive. I mean, it's expensive. I'm proud of the fact that I have -- I'm spending less money than these other characters. You know, they're politicians. All they know how to do is spend.You know, Jeb Bush in New Hampshire, Jeb Bush spent $48 million. I spent $3. He was like at the bottom of the pack. And I was number one by a landslide. Isn't that what you want for your country? Right?Isn't that what you want?I mean, these guys are spending money. The money they have for the commercials, I see commercial after commercial. And, you know, I put some -- look, I put some commercials on. You know why? Because I felt guilty. I really felt guilty. Because the press -- look at all these guys back there. The press is saying, well, maybe he's not spending for commercials. Why isn't he spending? And you know, you're leading and you're leading -- a great poll came out about an hour ago, CBS/"New York Times," national poll was great.We had a total ridiculous poll come out yesterday. Did you see that? "Wall Street Journal." Let me tell you. I'll tell you something, that poll was so different than every other poll. And some of the people, the broadcasters looked at it and said, this doesn't make sense, this is no good.About a month ago, I had a pretty good poll. I never get treated well in the "Wall Street Journal" in any capacity. But I had a pretty good poll. Thank you, yes, that's right. They're weak on immigration, I agree with you. They're weak on a lot of things. They're weak on financial. But the "Wall Street Journal" did a poll last month, and I was leading by quite a bit, not as good as other polls, because it's never good, but I was leading. I couldn't find it in the paper, right? I couldn't find it. And literally, I looked all over. I couldn't find it. They had all sorts of other things. Do you love the country, do you this, do you that. I was in there someplace. I just couldn't find it. It was buried someplace in the back of the paper. Today, they had an outlier poll. Everybody said a certain broadcaster from NBC, who did the poll with him, said I can't do this poll, this is ridiculous. And they interviewed very few people and very conservative and lots of different criteria, all of which was like -- and today it's on the front page of the "Wall Street Journal." What a lot of crap, OK?Isn't it? It's disgusting.And I'll tell you --So the Mexican government fed the Pope a tremendous amount of stuff about Trump is not a good person. And the Pope just made a statement -- can you imagine, I just got a call, as I'm walking up here, they said, Mr. Trump, the Pope made a statement about you. I said, the Pope? What did the Pope say? I like the Pope. I mean, was it good or bad? Because if it's good, I like the Pope. If it's bad, I don't like the Pope. No, it's true.Well, you know, look, look, Mexico -- I'm wise to Mexico. And I like Mexico. I have no problem. I have thousands and thousands of people over the years who have worked for me from Mexico. Hispanics worked for me. In Nevada, I'm leading with Hispanics. I'm leading the polls. I'm going to bring jobs back to the country. They like me. I have thousands of people that have worked for me, Hispanics, over the years. And I have great relationships with Hispanics. And I've been telling people I'm going to win. And people are saying, you must be kidding.Like, for instance, right here. Came out two minutes ago, veterans right here in your incredible state, right? The veterans have just -- I've gone up eight points because of what I said. You know what they said two days ago, what I said about Iraq, about the World Trade Center. I mean I only tell the truth. Somebody said, did you poll it? One of the politicians. Did you poll it? I said, I don't poll what I say. I say what's right. I say what's on my mind.And if it doesn't work, it's fine. I mean, you know, that's OK. But it's not a question of working. I have to be honest. But in South Carolina, they just did a poll. I went up 8 percent with the vets. Now it's supposed to be, boom. The vets get it. In fact, we have one of the great vets here, ever, right here, Al. Al, they're liking me. What happened? What happened? I went up. I was supposed to go down. I love the vets. I do more for the vets than any -- these politicians don't do anything for the vets. They talk. So what happened? I went up in the poll.Right.Oh, that's very nice. Wow. See? Who knew that was going to happen. You know, they say Trump will say things and we think he's going to go down and he goes up. And they say, you know why, because people like honesty. And when you think about it -- but that was great.So I guess this is a little bit for the press. So I just wrote this out very quickly about the Pope. Do you want to hear it? Should I read it to you?OK. He actually said that maybe I'm not a good Christian or something. It's unbelievable. Which is really not a nice thing to say. So it's a response from Donald Trump. It says, "if and when the Vatican is attacked by ISIS" -- you know, ISIS, their primary trophy -- very few people know this. I read this about two months ago. Nobody even believed it. Their primary thing -- you've seen what they've done all over the Middle East. Their primary goal is to get to the Vatican. That would be their ultimate trophy. They want to do what they did to all of these magnificent artifacts and all of the beautiful museums that they've totally destroyed all over the Middle East, right? They're -- and I didn't know this. I read this like four or five months ago. I made mention of it two months ago. And everyone said, what are you talking about? They thought, like, I'm kidding. It's true. And now there are stories about it. Not big stories, but there are stories about it. And I was checked by one of the reporters that said, they don't want to talk about the -- and he called up and apologized. The big thing, they want to get to the Vatican.So, if and when the Vatican is attacked by ISIS, which, as everyone knows, is ISIS' ultimate trophy, I can promise you that the Pope would have only wished and prayed that Donald Trump would have been president because -- it's true. It's true. Because this would not have happened. ISIS would have been eradicated, unlike what is happening now with our all-talk, no-action politicians. That's what's happening now.We -- we -- we had a General MacArthur, if we had a General George Patton, I mean, they'd be gone before they even got time to go over and check it out, OK? It's a ridiculous situation.Look, I'm wise to them. I respect Mexico. I respect their leadership. Their leadership is much smarter, much sharper than our leadership. And that's the problem. That's the problem. You know, we have a trade deficit with Mexico. Listen to this one. $58 billion. So when I say we're going to build a wall and Mexico's going to pay for it, these politicians all come up and they say, you can't get Mexico to pass a -- yes, I can. They have no idea what I'm even talking about. You people do, because you have some business people here, some good business people. Some of them I know. But Mexico's going to pay, because the wall is $12 billion, $10 billion to $12 billion. That's a -He was getting ready to do it again. I don't want to hear it. Look, so we send, we send them wheat. We send them cattle. They don't want our cattle, so they send it back. Goes back and forth, back and forth. Finally, they accept it. They call it kobe beef because it's aged. I mean, the stuff is rotted.No, no, it's, like, rotted. So because it's aged, it's decaying, it's disgusting, they call it kobe beef, and they charge you 10 times more for it. You tell me they're not smart? That's Japan. Japan is killing us. Komatsu -- look at what they're doing to Caterpillar. A friend of mine is an excavator. He buys excavating equipment, right? He goes out and he buys excavating equipment.I say, What are you doing? You're not buying Caterpillar. I can't. They have cut the yen, they have devalued their currency to such an extent, first time in his life he's buying excavation equipment from Komatsu. I said, What's the difference? He said, They're both good, Caterpillar's better, but this is good enough. I owe it to my family, I owe it to my employees and my company.I understand what he's saying. They've devalued their currency. Take a look at Caterpillar stock. Take a look at what's happening to Caterpillar. It's happening to all of us. Right here, you have Boeing. Boeing is being forced to build a massive plant in China, a number of massive plants.Folks, folks, let me just tell you something. Unless I'm president, you watch what happens. Won't happen with me because I know the game better than any human being that's ever lived. Nobody knows it better.... in pig's blood. You heard that, right? He fit -- he took 50 bullets and he dipped them in pig's blood! And he had his men load his rifles and he lined up the 50 people, and they shot 49 of those people. And the 50th person. he said, You go back to your people and you tell them what happened.And for 25 years, there wasn't a problem, OK, 25 years, there wasn't a problem, all right? So we better start getting tough and we better start getting vigilant, and we better start using our heads or we're not going to have a country folks. We're not going to have a country.What?It is. I love this country. That's why I'm doing this! I love this country! We want to keep this country.We want to keep this country. We want to make -- look, I'll tell you something. I've been saying something because I've been meeting so many people, millions and millions of people. One of the reporters today, a great reporter, television reporter, said to me, I've been doing this, Mr. Trump -- and he didn't say this on the record and I wouldn't tell his name, but he said, I've been doing this for 25 years. In 25 years, sir, I have never, ever, ever seen anything like what's happening with you and with your people. It's amazing!It's amazing.We love you, folks. We love you.We love you. It's a movement. It's a movement.It's really a movement.Well, I want to thank everybody. I have to start by thanking Governor Chris Christie because --I was telling the press a little while ago, everybody was really surprised. Sort of a shocker. We kept it secret. Chris and I met the other day. He said, this whole thing, he called it the same thing. Donald, I have never seen anything like this it. It's a movement. I've never seen anything like this, so we shook hands, and I said, let's keep it as a secret for the people in Texas. Let's do it!And when we walked in to that press room, they went, whoa. And then we walk in and you people went, whoa. So it's really good. With all the people, we have a lot of endorsements happening. It is amazing when you're number one place for a long period of time, the endorsements are coming in but the one I was happy with is this one right here.Chris, thank you. We love you, man.So we had a debate last night.No, I have to say because I don't hear it from pundits as much. Some of the pundits are honest and say Trump won the debate and Trump did well. Some of the people are so dishonest. It's incredible. On the online polls where hundreds of thousands of people voting, we won every single online poll.We won Drudge who, by the way, a fantastic guy. Won the online polls. This means so much to me.Somebody says, what does that mean? Hundreds of thousands of people calling in, believe me, I can't have my secretary sitting in, calling in for a couple of extras. So that was an honor. It's been an honor and we have been winning those polls literally from the first debate. Obviously, something is going very good in the debates because the big poll is really the polls that are coming out. In Texas, they just came out with a poll that we're effectively tied. The Emerson poll.And I have so many friends in Texas. We are -- we are loaded up with friends in Texas. And I think --I think we're going to surprise a lot of people. I tell you.We are going to surprise a lot of people. And it's going to be great.So, I'll talk a little bit about the competition. Then we'll talk about our borders, which we will build the wall, and it will be --it will be a great wall. And can you only imagine your ex- president of Mexico, Vincente Fox --You, that's the way other countries are used to talking to the United States. No more. No more.He couldn't belief that somebody would say, Mexico has to do something. And by the way, it's that way with Japan. It's that way with India. It's that way with China. It's that way with Vietnam. A new one coming along. They want to be treated with tremendous respect, even though they don't treat us with respect. It's going to change, folk. It's going to change.Not going to be this way anymore.So he dropped the F-bomb and I said to myself, can you imagine if I said that? And nobody mentioned it. Not a big deal. Not a big deal. For him, it's OK. I wouldn't use that. I would not go there, by the way. But when he did it, it was absolutely fine because that's the way it is. Double standards. But here's the story. We're being ripped on trade by every nation that we do business with in the world. We are going to become so good. We are going to negotiate so strong and so tough. We are not going to have a $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico. We're not going to have a $500 billion trade deficit with China. $500 billion. Not going to happen. We are not going to be billions of dollars behind with Japan and we are going to talk about that in a second.But let's talk about our lightweight Senator from Florida who's losing big in the polls.So, I heard he was on television saying negative things. I see him. It all started about three or four weeks in New Hampshire, which I won. I love the people of New Hampshire. We won it big.We won it big. And we won South Carolina. Big, big, big. In all fairness, that was going to be your Senator's place. He was going to win it. He said he'll win South Carolina. And I won women, men, evangelicals, military, vets.I won everything. We won every category. And we won with Hispanics! I love the Hispanics.Because people that are in our country legally, they don't want our jobs taken away and they don't want their jobs taken away, and I'm going to bring a lot of jobs back to this country.Remember that.But I saw with Rubio, I saw and he's a nervous wreck because here's a guy -- no. He's a basket case. Here's a guy -- you ought to see him, see him backstage. He was putting on makeup with a trowel. Like --No. I don't want to say that. I will not say that he was trying to cover up his ears. I will not say that.And I'm standing in the middle, which, by the way, I've been for every middle debate. The middle.I said to CNN, I'm in the middle all the time and I say to these networks, CNN in this case, so I'm in the middle number one. You announce me at number one? Oh no, sir. Really, good. Who knows you're in the middle. Big deal, right? But I watch Chris take a man apart and I looked at him and honestly I thought he was going to die, Rubio.He was so scared like a little frightened puppy.And he kept saying the Obama phrase over and over. So then I heard it once. And I said, that's fine, big deal. I'm standing here. He's right here. Chris is over here. And Chris was sort of cool, because he was like this.I could don't that. You know? I want to stand up straight. I don't know. But this looked like Perry Mason. That's what it was.And Chris started going into him. So he said the Obama phrase once. I was fine. Twice. I said, he just said that. That was strange. But that's OK. Right? Twice. And then a third time. And I said, it was like a robot. And then a fourth time and a fifth time. I said this guy's cracking up on us.And he was sweating so badly. I have never seen anything like it. It looked like he just jumped into a swimming pool with his clothing on.I've never -- and I said to myself, we have tough people to negotiate with. We have Putin. We have the Chinese. We have wars that we're in that we are -- by the way we're going to build up the military and knock out ISIS.We're going to knock out ISIS fast. Remember the great days? General George Patton. General Douglas Macarthur. Do you think they would even be thinking about ISIS? By the time they pick up the telephone, it's over. What is wrong? You know, we don't win anymore and we're getting to that.But I have to finish with this clown over here. So I watch this and I thought something bad was going to happen to him. He got through it, but barely. Barely. I was almost going to go over and hold him up. Now, think of this, think of this. So we have Putin, and Putin's going to meet our president, and let's assume it's Marco.Let's assume it's Marco. No, I agree with you, we don't want him, boo, boo.And Putin's sitting there waiting for a kill. And he knows all about Marco because, when they put Marco on to refute President Obama's speech, do you remember that catastrophe? And he's like this, and we will, ah, ah, I need water, help me, I need water. Help. This on live television. This total choke artist is refuting -- you know, I tell you, you know about sports. Do I love sports? We love sports. We're athletes.So you notice in sports, almost always true, when you're a choke artist, you're always a choke artist. It doesn't really change. You know, sadly the guy that misses the kick and the coach says, I'm going to give him another chance. Unfortunately, the following year, he misses the kick again. So choke artists, they choke, they choke. So what's going to happen is we look at this and he goes in to see Putin and he walks in and he's soaking wet and Putin looks at him and goes what's wrong with this guy, this is going to be easy pickings. And believe me, it will be. But I'll never forget the scene.Then we're going to go to something else that's actually more interesting. Just remember this, remember this. Really, really weak on illegal immigration Marco.Totally in favor of amnesty. Totally. Totally in favor of amnesty. Totally in favor. So he's getting the thing. He's doing the speech. I notice he's -- live television. You just don't see it. I mean, Nikki Haley did it last time and she was good. At least she wasn't sweating like that. She was, like, fine. She did say we're angry people. When I was at the debate, they asked me about it, are you and your people angry?No, I was supposed to say no, we're not angry. We're thrilled with the Iran deal. We're thrilled with all of the problems. We're thrilled with -- our education is terrible, with Obamacare, which is terrible, no, we're not angry at all. But they asked me the question and I said, yeah, we're really angry, we are.And we're not angry people. And we're not angry people.I'll just finish off with confidence. And then out of nowhere, he goes, on live television, here's our response, he choked. He's a choker. He choked with Chris. I watched it both times. But the one time I'm right next to him, and I looked at the puddle on the ground and I said, what is that, what is it? I wanted to know, what is that? But this time, this wise guy, this lightweight, is going over and, all of a sudden, he goes like this, remember? I said, where is he? And then he comes back with water. And honestly, water's fine, but it should be in a glass. He's got the label of the company here. And he's drinking -- honestly, I've never seen anything like it. I've never seen anything like it.So we are going to beat guys like that. See, it's guys like this -- and he's a nasty guy. I called him a nasty little guy, but I wouldn't say that because -- he's a nasty guy. And we don't need nasty. We don't need nasty. Honestly, there's no place for it. You know, there's no place.He said specifics on Obamacare. Let me tell you something, we're going to knock out Obamacare.Remember this, when we get the insurance companies, who are taking care of all these people -- I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm putting up my own money.So when the insurance companies come to me, because they want to keep it the way it is, by the way, they're making a fortune. Because there's like a monopoly in every state. I was watching in Texas, there's a practical monopoly, because companies aren't allowed to come in very easily. They practically can't come in. They said, oh, be more specific. I don't have to be specific. What's going to happen is you're going to create open bidding by getting rid of the borders around each state and the lines, restrictive lines around each state. You are going to have so much competition, you're going to have so much bidding, that you can't really say it's one plan. You are going to have hundreds of different options. You're going to have hundreds different plans. It's going to be so beautiful. And you're going to pay far less money, far less money.So I want to just mention Senator Cruz, who was -- I thought --Last night, I thought the deal of the night was when I looked over to Rubio, and I said, you remember, you're a joker and we don't want jokers in the administration. I said, you're a joker and you're a liar.I have had a lot of difficulties with Ted, because he does lie. You know, I've dealt with much tougher. A guy like Rubio is a baby. But a guy like Ted is tougher, I well tell you. He's tougher. And he's smarter. And in all fairness, Ted is actually smarter. Ted is actually smarter. I have to give that to him. He's a smarter person than Rubio. But I deal with people. Last night, it was mentioned -- by the way, it was mentioned, my father gave me $200 million. Oh, I wish. I wish.I'd be right now worth $500 trillion if that were the case. You know, first thing I did, get back, get a call from my sister, who's a fantastic person, then I get a call from my brother, who's a fantastic person. They said, hey, Donald, that's not true, why did they say that? And he copied it -- you know, you have the failing New York Times. It's a failing newspaper. I hate to tell you. Like seriously failing. They wrote an article, and they put something in, about $200 million. Believe me, I got very, very little. And I built it into many, many, many billions dollars, and I'm very proud of it. But --I just think -- I just think we have to correct -- we just have to correct the record.Thank you. I love you. Thank you.It's Rubio!Unbelievable.But we like to correct the record.But you know, I spend a lot of time in Laredo, Texas. Right on the border.I was invited by the border guards. By the way, I got endorsed, -- talking about Chris -- by Sheriff Joe Arpaio.The one thing you know about Sheriff Joe, he's the toughest guy on the border. There's no games to be played with Sheriff Joe. Who puts pink "you know what" on his people that are there illegally. Sheriff Joe does not play games. Everybody wanted his endorsement. But the toughest one on the border was endorsed by Sheriff Joe. And I think it's incredible.I was called by our Border Patrol. Unbelievable people. I got to know them well. They said, Mr. Trump -- I was running, I was doing very well. You know, since I've started this whole thing, I've been practically number one for the whole trip.And now we have big leagues. Please, Texas. Let's win Texas. I want to win Texas.I was called by the Border Control. These people are incredible. And they want to do their job. That's why they called me. They said, would it be possible for you to come to Texas to Laredo. I said, yes, I'll do it. I went to Laredo and I met with a lot of the Border Patrol folks and some of the top people. Man, they are just incredible, smart, tough, great people. You know who are great people? Our police are great people.They're being abused. Our police are being abused. Our police are incredible people. In fact, I just took pictures backstage. They're incredible people. So I just want to -- we have to -- we have to put out the plug everyone once in a while because, you know, one bad incident, whether it's a mistake or somebody was just a bad apple, and it's played for weeks and weeks on the news. And the thousands and tens of thousands of great jobs that they do, they don't get appreciated. So let's hear it for the police.So I'm in Laredo and they're telling me how sad it is because they can stop it. We need the wall. We want to have the wall. We want to stop the drugs from pouring across. We're going to stop the drugs. And there's going to be a real wall. This is not going to be a toy wall. This is going to be a real wall. And -- and I'm the only one that knows how to build it. These guys, they have no clue. Politicians, all talk, no action, never gets done.And by the way, when I said self-funding before, the beauty of that -- the beauty of self-funding is that the insurance companies, the drug companies, the lumber companies, all the companies, they're not going to take advantage of Trump because they never gave me anything, OK? Big difference. Big difference.And I don't know that I get the credit for that. You know, I said to somebody the other day, Jeb Bush had $150 million. What a waste of money. I would imagine at some point between him and Romney they'll be supporting Rubio, do you think? I would imagine.Romney -- how about this? How about this beauty. Runs one of the worst campaigns in the history of politics. He should have beaten Obama easily. And for two months he disappeared. Nobody knows where he was. And say what you want, Obama was on Jay Leno, David Letterman, he was on every show, and Romney was like a lost soul. I don't know what happened to this guy.And then he comes out and tells me about my taxes. And actually, if you know the real story, Harry Reid shamed him and made him look like a baby and Harry Reid pushed him and pushed him and really made him look so stupid and weak. And when did Romney file his return, right? What's today's date? Today is what? Come on, tell me. What? OK.So you know when Romney filed his return? September -- September 21st. That's a long time from now. This guy, what a terrible -- I endorsed him and about two weeks later I said, he's never going to win. Number one, when you walk onto a stage, you cannot walk like a penguin. He walked like a penguin. I said this is a problem. Somebody tell him, take some steps. Anyway, Romney -- Romney turned out to be a disaster. But I know he'll support Rubio. He probably has no choice. Honestly, if he wanted to support me, I would not accept his support. I really admit it. Because -- because we have to be honest, right? We have to be honest.And I will say this, just to show you great loyalty. I supported John McCain and we lost. I supported Mitt Romney, and we lost. This time I said, I'm going to do it myself, OK? Big difference.So the border control is incredible. And they're told to stand back. Stand back. Let the people walk in. Let them go wherever they're going to go. We don't have a border. And if you don't have a border, we don't have a country, folks. We don't have a country.So we're going to have borders. And they're going to be serious borders. And they're going to be very, very powerful borders. And in the case of our southern border, we're going to have a wall. And it's going to stop.And, by the way, we are going to have people come into our country, but they're coming into our country legally. Legally. We want people to come in. We want people to come in. We want people to come in, but they have to be the right people.We're going to be different, folks. We're going to be strong. We're going to be smart. We're going to be tough. We're not going to play games anymore. We're not going to play games anymore. Not going to happen. Not going to happen.So we're going to be the strongest on borders and we're going to set the example for other parts of the world. And we're not taking in Syrians that we have no idea who they are, where they come from. And we've already taken in thousands, thousands, and we don't even know where they are. But you have no idea -- I spoke to the top law enforcement people and they said, Mr. Trump, they don't have papers, they have absolutely no identification. And do you ever notice the migration -- and I want to help people. And I say, you build a safe zone and I'll get other people to pay for it because I don't want to pay for it. We owe $19 trillion. We're not paying for it. But we'll get the Gulf States to pay. They have more money than anybody and they're not spending their money. We've got to loosen up their wallets, folks, and I'm very good at getting people to do that, believe me, because I like the idea of a safe zone.But did you ever notice the migration comes across and you look and there's so many young men, right? I say, where are the women? Where are the children? Now, they're there, but not like they should be. So law enforcement is telling me -- is that a protester? Oh, good, turn the cameras. Turn the cameras. Good. I love protesters. Look at this. Look at this. We have 10,000 people here today. Look at this. Is that a protester? Please be a protester. The only way we can get the cameras turned, the only reason they turn the cameras is if there's a protester because that's a bad thing, right? I'm going to develop my own protesters.But, look, it can't -- it can't be a protester because those cameras won't turn. They won't turn. I'll tell you what, I think the media is among the most dishonest groups of people I've ever met. They're terrible. The New York Times, which is losing a fortune, which is a failing newspaper, which probably won't be around that much longer, but probably somebody will buy it as a trophy, keep it going for a little longer, but I think The New York Times is one of the most dishonest media outlets I've ever seen in my life. The worst. The worst. The absolute worst. They have an agenda that you wouldn't believe. And they're run by incompetent people. They are totally incompetently run.Washington Post, I have to tell you, I have respect for Jeff Bezos, but he bought The Washington Post to have political influence. And I got to tell you, we have a different country then we used to have. We have a different -- he owns Amazon. He wants political influence so that Amazon will benefit from it. That's not right. And, believe me, if I become president, oh, do they have problems. They're going to have such problems.And one of the things I'm going to do -- and this is only going to make it tougher for me, and I've never said this before -- but one of the things I'm going to do if I win, and I hope I do, and we're certainly leading, is I'm going to open up our libel laws so when they write purposely negative and horrible and false articles, we can sue them and win lots of money. We're going to open up those libel laws.So that when The New York Times writes a hit piece, which is a total disgrace, or when The Washington Post  which is there for other reasons, writes a hit piece, we can sue them and win money instead of having no chance of winning because they're totally protected. You see, with me, they're not protected because I'm not like other people, but I'm not taking money. I'm not taking their money. So we're going to open up those libel laws, folks, and we're going to have people sue you like you never got sued before.We have many things to do. We have many, many things to do. When I came down on the escalator with my wife, Milania, it was June 16th, and I said, look, let me tell you, it's not easy running for presidents. You get lowlifes like a guy like Rubio saying horrible things, horrible things. And, who needs it? Really, who needs it? This is a lowlife. And Cruz lies, but at least it's reasonable lies. This other guy says terrible things.And I will tell you, when you to this and when I agreed to do it, it takes guts to do it. It takes guts. Especially if you're not a politician. Now, I'm not a politician, thank goodness. I guess now I am but I'm not, OK? I don't want to be a politician.And when I came down the escalator, there were cameras. Look at all those cameras back there. Look at it. Look at it. Hello, folks, how you doing, you son of a guns. But we had cameras like the Academy Awards. It looked like it was the Academy Awards. And I said to my wife, I looked at the Iran deal, which is one of the great insults in the history of deal making. We give them $150 billion. We get absolutely nothing. We get nothing. And then they attack. They take -- they take as hostage, our ten sailors, and the only reason we got them back -- why did we get them back? Because the money wasn't paid. It went in two days later.So the Persians are great negotiators. They gave them back. They would have kept them otherwise, unless Trump was president. Believe me, they wouldn't be keeping them. They wouldn't be keeping them. And if I was president, the hostages would have been released four years ago because I wouldn't have negotiated until they released the hostages. And if they didn't release them, I would have increased the sanctions and we would have had those hostages within 24 hours years ago.I want to tell you one other thing. Your Second Amendment is under siege. Guns. Guns, guns, guns. It's under siege. And every time you have a mental disturbed person, like you had last night, and like you will have, they immediately look to the guns, like the guns pull the trigger. Well, the guns do not pull the trigger. And we are going to protect your Second Amendment 100 percent. One hundred percent.But when you look at what happened in California with the 14 people and many people in the hospital that are in very bad shape, and these were people that gave the two radicalized -- the couple, this couple, so-called couple. I don't even like to call them a couple. You know what I'd like to call them. It gave this couple anniversary parties and baby parties and showers. These were people that knew them, that were friends and they went in and they just blew them away.And then you look at Paris, where you have 130 people that were killed. Many people in hospitals gravely injured. These animals just walked in, took their guns and said bing, bing, bing, you, get over here, bing. If we would have had guns, where bullets flowed in the other direction, you wouldn't have had that big problem. It would have been much smaller.You know Paris is probably the toughest place in the world to have a gun, except if you're a bad guy then there's no problem. You just have a gun. So if we had people or if we had people in Los Angeles, would have been a whole different story, folks, would have been a whole different story. So just remember your Second Amendment with me is protected. Your borders are protected.Common Core -- Common Core -- Common Core is out. It's out. In the top 30 nations, with 30 being by far the worst, in the world for education, we're number 30 but we're number one in cost per pupil by a factor of like -- there is no second, OK? We're number one. So we're number one in cost. We're number 30, we're last. You have Norway, Sweden, Denmark, China. You have lots of places. You have some countries you never even heard of are ahead of the USA. Not going to happen anymore, folks. We're going to get up that list. We're going to start climbing up that list.You know, the American dream is dead, but we're going to make it bigger and stronger and better than ever before. Remember that. But -- but it's very hard for a person to live the American dream without good education. So we're going to work very, very hard on that. So Common Core is out. It's dead. Common Core is dead.We're going to bring it locally. And I've seen the local. It's unbelievable. Where the parents and the teachers and everybody, there's love in the room, and it's a beautiful thing to watch. It's a beautiful thing to watch.You know another thing that we have to talk about, I've had tremendous support from the evangelicals and from Christians. I've had tremendous support. And, in fact, Pastor Jeffers is here right now. I don't know, Pastor Jeffers, where are you? Where -- oh, come here, come here, come here, come here. I saw him. Get him over here. He has been so supportive. I didn't meet him. I've seen him on television for years. I've always liked him a lot. And one day I'm listening to him and he said, Donald Trump may not be perfect, but he's the best leader, he's the strongest guy, he's going to knock out ISIS, he's going to do great for our economy. He may not be perfect -- I didn't like that, but that's OK -- but he's going to be our best president. Will you come out. See if you can get him up here. I love this guy. He just -- I'm just watching him and highly, highly respect him.And also Jerry Falwell Jr. was so incredible. And since I get -- and many others. The Reverend Paula White. So many others. We've had such support. We have unbelievable support from Sarah Palin. She is incredible. She's a great -- she's a great person. Come on up here, Reverend. Pastor Jeffers. And is it true -- I didn't know him and I love him. Say a few words.Wow, how about that! How about that! I'm telling you, I saw the pastor on television like a year ago and he was saying all these good things and I never met him, but I've been watching him and he was saying all these incredible things and I said, we have to meet this man. And like I just have such great respect for him. And you can see that.Thank you very much. That's really amazing. Really amazing.And I'm going to give the pastor a little bit of a present because what I say I mean. And I think it's very important for the Christians in the room. Christianity is under siege. Every year it gets weaker and weaker and weaker. And I had a meeting with various ministers and pastors about two months ago, and I'm pretty good at figure things out. And I sat with them. And some of them said, we love you, we want to endorse you so badly, but we're afraid we're going to lose if we do that, our tax except status. And I said, what's this all about?That takes you and it makes you less powerful than a man or woman walking up and down the street. You actually have less power. And yet if you look at it, I was talking to some -- we probably have 250 million, maybe even more, in terms of people. So we have more -- we have more Christians, think of this, then we have men or women in our country. And we don't have a lobby because they're afraid to have a lobby because they don't want to lose their tax status. So I am going to work like hell to get rid of that prohibition. And we're going to have the strongest Christian lobby. And it's going to happen. And it's going to happen.This took place during the presidency of Lyndon Johnson. And it has had a terrible, chilling effect. When I said that there has to be a temporary ban on certain people coming into this country, we have no choice, there's something wrong, there's something really wrong. And when I said Muslim, I was met with furor. If I would have said Christian, people would have said, oh, we can't do anything about it. That's going to end, folks. We're going to say "Merry Christmas " now on Christmas. We're going to start going to department stores and stores and you're going to see big, beautiful signs that's going to say "Merry Christmas " and "Happy Holiday " and we're going to have a big, big, big lot of fun. And we're going to get rid of that. And we're going to work very hard. That's one of the first things I want to do, I want to get rid of that. And politically, if we use that power, we're going to start going up, up, up because we are being decimated. So just remember that. Just remember I said it.Pastor, it starts here. Do you like that, what I just said? He's happy. That's the biggest smile I've ever seen on his face. I'll do it. You -- and you can hold me to it, pastor, all right? You're responsible.So, again, we're going to have a great country again. We're going to have a smart country again. We're going to have tremendous borders and tremendous strength and people are coming in but we're going to have real borders. We're going to have unbelievable trade deals. I have Carl Icahn, some of the best businesspeople in the world. We have right now political hacks negotiating these massive, massive trade deals. The biggest deals in the world, we have people that don't have the slightest clue.We're going to get rid of Obamacare. We're going to make something great. We're going to get rid of Common Core. We're going to have local education. We're going to protect our Second Amendment. We're going to protect Christianity. We're going to be back. And, folks, I'll tell you, and it's very simple, my whole theme, and your whole theme, because we're all together, I'm just a messenger, our whole theme is make America great again. That's what's going to happen. We're going to win a lot, folks. We're going to win all the time.Thank you very much. I love Texas. I love Texas. Get out there and vote. Get out there and vote. Thank you. Thank you.Wow. Thank you, Chris. Thank you very much. I really appreciate it.Look at this turnout. This is incredible. And there are many people outside that can't get into the hangar. The fire marshal won't let them in. Oh, fire marshal, let me talk to you, please. Please. But it's such an honor, and you know, we've had tremendous results here. And I think we're going to do very well here. We're going to do well everywhere. I think the only place we're tied actually is Texas, we're tied in Texas. And I think we have a really good chance of winning Texas. People are so tired of these politicians, it's all talk. No action.And I've been watching it, I've dealt with them all my life. I've been watching it all my life. I got a little glimpse of it just now coming in. I watched this lightweight Rubio, total lightweight, and little mouth on him, bing, bing, bing. Bing, bing, bing, bing.And his new attack is he calls me a con artist. I'm a con man, right? You know, I built a great business. And believe me, I wish my father loaned me $200 million or gave me $200 million. I wish he had $200 million in those days. I'll tell you what, I wish my father gave me that money. I borrowed a tiny amount of money, $1 million, I started a business, it's worth much more than $10 billion right now. I filed unbelievable statements with the FEC, Federal Elections, and the press knows, they fully understand because they went down there, they were, like, a bunch of ants. They were all over the place.And they were so disappointed to see what a great company it is. Some of the great assets of the world. Very little debt. Tremendous cash flow and it says it all. First time I've ever done that because I'm a private company. And believe me, if I didn't have a good statement I wouldn't have been able to run because I wouldn't have been able to file. And the filing is amazing. And the company is amazing.And the reason I tell you that is because that's the thinking we need. We have $19 trillion in debt. We're going up to $21 trillion as a country. Our country is a mess. We're losing our business. Companies are moving into Mexico. They're moving to China. They're moving to Ireland. Pfizer just announced they're going to move to Ireland. Great company. They're moving to Ireland. They're moving all over the world. They're leaving us.And our numbers, that 5 percent number you hear unemployment. Total fiction. It's probably 25 percent, could even be 30 percent. Because when somebody looks for a job and they give up like most people do, they go home, they say, I can't do it anymore. They're considered statically employed.We have a really problem, folks, and we're going to get it solved. OK? We're going to get it solved.But I will address, you know, little Rubio. This guy has a fresh mouth. He's a very nasty guy. And I actually thought that Ted Cruz was a liar, but Rubio is worse. I mean, he's worse. And I watched -- I must tell you, one of the reasons I love having Chris. And Chris called me a couple of days ago, he said, you know what, what you have is a movement. I've never seen anything it. He said, and he's a pro. He's one of the real endorsements that I wanted. And he called me. I would have called him, I was sort of like getting ready to call him. And out of the blue Chris called and he said I want to endorse you and your campaign. I've never seen anything like it. And many people have never seen anything like it.Peggy Noonan who is terrific. She writes a fantastic piece today in "The Wall Street Journal" talking about it. What's happening is amazing. "TIME" magazine, a few weeks ago, a cover story, the movement that we've created. But just to address, so I was in New Hampshire which we won, by the way. We, not me, we. We won. And I saw a meltdown of a human being like I've never seen. It was Rubio. And it was Chris who started. And I'll tell you what, he is one prosecutor, isn't he? In all fairness.But he started. And he looked at Rubio, and they went back and forth, all of a sudden -- and you have to understand, I'm in the center -- I've been the center for every single debate now which is nice. Center means good. I told CNN, well, are you going to announce that I'm number one? No. I said well, nobody is going to know I'm number one unless you announce it. They said you're in the center. I said, I don't care. Nobody knows that. But they don't want to do that.They should do that, right? But thye don't want to do that. They never want to do that stuff. They never want to do anything good. I'm not just talking about them, I'm talking about the other ones, too. The media, the most dishonest human beings on earth, I'm telling you.The most. And we're going to -- by the way, while I'm on that subject, I am going to do everything I can, if I win, they write false stories, they write nasty false stories and they know they're false, I've had some written more than I've ever seen before in the last period of a few months. They write false stories you can't really sue because the libel laws are essentially nonexistent.We're going to open up the libel laws so when they write falsely, we can sue the media and we can get the story corrected and get damages. All right. Believe me.So important. And you know what, it will be amazing how honest they become. Right now they can say anything they want to say. Some day in the not too distant future if I win, they're not going to get away with the stuff that they get away with and I think we all feel -- don't we all feel that way? It's terrible. Very, very dishonest people. But I watched Chris go after this lightweight Rubio. I call him lightweight Rubio. I watched it.And I'm sitting here and he's over here, somebody on my left, doesn't matter. And he's over here, and I see him starting to sweat. Like I have never seen anything like it. Thank God he has really large ears, the biggest ears I've ever seen, because they were protecting him. It was going -- I have never seen any human being sweat like this guy.And he said the Obama statement, once. And that was fine. And then he said it twice. And I'm standing -- I had nothing to do with it because Chris is over here. He's over here. Just to my right. He said it a second time. And I said, oh, that's strange, going like this. That's strange. Then he said the same exact words. You know, he memorizes phrases, like the con man. I saw Bret Baier yesterday say I never -- he said con man so many times during the interview. Trump's a con man. Trump's a con man.The last thing I am is a con man, folks. I built a great business, OK? I built a great business.And by the way, think of this, then I do a television show call The Apprentice and it becomes one of the top shows on television, tremendously successful, and by the way, they wanted to renew me, and I couldn't do it because I was doing this. And Steve Burke, the head of Comcast, great guy, comes into my office. Donald, we want to renew you, I said, Steve, I'm going to run for president. You can't do both. OK? It's called equal time laws or whatever it's called but you can't.He said, please, please. I said no, I'm going to do this. And we chose because I have a big, you know, stake in The Apprentice going forward and everything else. And we chose Arnold Schwarzenegger. Let's see how he does. Right? Let's see. I hope he does well but who knows? Right? I know Trump did well. Fourteen seasons. So I had this tremendous show that was one of the most successful shows on television, and really one of the most successful. And we came up with the impression, "You're fired." And it's been -- it's been great.And you got know my kids, Ivanka, Don, Eric and a lot of other people. And my family, I'm so proud of. But -- so we do a show, it's greatly successful. I do books, right. I do the "Art of the Deal." One of the most successful -- probably the most successful but one of the most successful business books and books of its kind ever written. And I did many other books. 12 other books. Many best-sellers.And then I built this business that is unbelievable. Some of the greatest assets in the world. Turnberry in Scotland. Doral in Miami. Buildings all over the place. Big chunks at the Bank of America building in San Francisco. Built a city practically on the west side of Manhattan. A big chunk of 1290 Avenue of the Americas, biggest floor plates in New York. Just about the biggest floor plates, I think they are the biggest floor plates. And just built 40 Wall Street, Trump Tower, so many things.And then I listen to this light little nothing say Trump's a con man. Isn't it a disgrace? I mean, seriously. You know, it really is -- maybe it will make the libel laws also so we can sue lying politicians, you know, because --But -- but, you know, it's very insulting when you hear it. And thank goodness I have this where I can get off and counteract it b they say things that are so wrong. Now I don't know what Cruz is staying but these two guys are in big trouble. They're in big trouble. Yes. It's almost like who cares, but they're in big trouble. Rubio's won nothing. He couldn't get elected dog catcher in Florida. They hate him in the state of Florida. No, no, think of it. He's a politician, and Chris went over it, never votes, never anything. He couldn't right now if he ran for office in Florida, he wouldn't get elected to any office. They cannot stand him because Florida is like a second home. They cannot stand the guy. And he abandoned them. Think of it. He runs for Senate. He wins, they give him their confidence. He wins. And before he even runs he is looking for another position. And he never goes to vote on some of the most important bills. He's never voting. They hate him in Florida.That's why I'm up 22 points. Can you imagine? We have -- we have a sitting senator, at least with Cruz, we're even. That's not so great for him either. Because he's a sitting senator in Texas. So -- but in Florida, we have a sitting senator, and I'm up by a tremendous amount, every poll. Because they can't stand the guy.Now here's the story. He sat and he stood, and I thought he was going down. And I said, man, I think he's choking. I love -- you know, I love -- it's called human, whatever, I love watching whatever happens. I said, I'm about to witness history. This guy's going down. This guy's going down. And I'm looking and I'm getting ready because, you know, it's like a lot of people, I'm a pretty strong guy.And I'm getting ready to grab him because I thought he was -- I thought he was out. And he starts sweating. And honestly, this is true. He's got a problem. I've never seen a human being sweat like he sweats. So Chris Christie is grilling him. So he says it twice. Now he says it a third time, I said, now that's not good, because three times the exact same line, memorized. And then a fourth and then a fifth. And I'm looking like wow. But I'm getting ready to grab him, because I'm telling you, he's going down.I have never -- it looked like he jumped in a swimming pool with his clothing on and then came back. Now for the last debate, I go back and I see him with makeup and it's like he's putting it on with a trowel, OK. And then he got very aggressive right at the beginning. Now I knew they were going to do that, both of them, they double- teamed me because -- and I got great reviews. You know that every single poll, Drudge, Slate, I think "TIME" magazine, every single poll had me winning that debate, which is amazing, every single.Not all of the pundits had me winning but every single poll. And many of the pundits, but not all of them, some of them no matter what, if I was Abraham Lincoln debating, he was a very good debater. They'd say it wasn't a great night. A couple of them would say it wasn't a great night. I thought it was a great night but -- right?But I was double-teamed by these two. But with Rubio, just to finish off with him, so I knew it was going to be one of these nights because everybody was saying, they've got to do it, they have no choice because they're getting killed. We're way ahead. We're way ahead nationally. We're way ahead here and every place. We've got to win. We've got to win Arkansas. We've got to win Arkansas.We've got to win. Maybe I'll start shopping permanently at WalMart if we win Arkansas.I'll never go anywhere else. We've got to win Arkansas. I love it. I love the people of Arkansas. I know so many people, they are great people, these are great people. But just remember this -- that's right, thank you. But just remember this, politicians are never going to get you to the promised land. They're never, ever going to get you to the promised land. And things were said in previous speeches and probably by Cruz also but I didn't get to see Cruz, which is just false, so many things I've done so well.For instance, they talked Trump University. It's a small deal, very small. But I got sued by a lawyer who sues. They sue because they want to see if they can get some money back. I could have settled this numerous times. I could settle it now. But I don't like settling suits. Because when you settle lawsuits, everybody sues you. It's a little business story. I have friends, they settle lawsuits and they can't understand why are they always sued. I don't settle lawsuits.We have people at Trump University that wrote -- most of them, that wrote statements and they wrote the statement where, I love the school and I love this, for some reason -- I never saw this before -- we call them report cards, they did like report cards, essentially report cards, where at the end of the class, at the end of the period of time, they did a study, they did a report card on how you like it.Some even did film clips where they actually are in film saying great things. The person that started the suit wrote a great statement saying, it was fantastic. And did a film clip saying that it was fantastic. And they just asked that she be taken out of the case. She doesn't want to be in the case anymore. And the reason they want is because she's a terrible plaintiff because she said all these great things about Trump University. And she's on film saying how great it is. So they put in a motion which of course the papers don't write this. They put in a motion saying to take her -- her name is Taralof or something. Take her out of the case. The reason they want her out of the case is she is a horrible, horrible witness.She's got in writing that she loves it. And I could have settled it and when I saw her documentation, I said why would I give her money? She loved the case and she's on tape. Why would I give her money. I probably should have settled it but I just can't do that. Mentally I can't do it. I'd rather spend a lot more money and fight. The --No, you got to. You got to. Hey, it would have been much easier if I settled, it would have probably been cheaper but I don't care. It would have been much easier -- it would have been cheaper. It would have been much easier but just so you understand, so these people, all it is, is people put up something and now they get letters, can you get your money back? We'll get our money back, yes, let's join.The attorney general of New York, this is all a civil case, by the way, it's a simple civil case. The attorney general of New York meets with Barack Obama in Syracuse.The following day, he sues me. What they don't say is I believe $15,000 or a lot of money was paid to the attorney general by the law firm in California. See, I'm giving you sort of a life experience because is this more interesting than talking about trade? A trade is easy for us. Trade is easy. But this is sort of like -- this is almost like a story on success, because this is the way the world works. This is sort of the way the world works. So the attorney general gets a campaign contribution from the law firm that's suing me.All of a sudden the attorney general, his name is Eric Schneiderman, not respected in New York, doing a terrible job, probably is not electable in New York but who knows, and he meets with Obama, gets a campaign contribution, I think. I think it's $15,000 and all of a sudden he meets with Obama in I believe Syracuse and the following day or two he brings a lawsuit against me.Now much of that lawsuit has been won by me. He's appealing it. It's on appeal right now. But much of that case, it's a long time already, but much of that case we won. It's won. I don't mean we settled. We've won much of that case. They missed the statute of limitations and most of it is going away but nobody writes that. Nobody wants to write that.The rest of it we're doing very well. We have a very hostile judge because to be honest with you the judge should have thrown the case out on summary judgment but because it was me and because there's a hostility toward me by the judge, tremendous hostility, beyond belief, I believe he happens to be Spanish, which is fine. He's Hispanic, which is fine, and we haven't asked for recusal which we may do but we have a judge who's very hostile. Should have been thrown out.Wasn't thrown out, and I say, I'd rather go to court because when you go to court and you have witnesses get up there and then they have to say, but why did you sign a document saying that you love the school, etcetera, etcetera, why should you pay money for that. So I just wanted to give you a little bit of the parameters because you keep hearing about Trump University. So it's a civil case. It's a sleazebag law firm that does these class action cases. They're very routine and I will win the case in the end.I just didn't want to be forced to settle and I could have settled it before I did this and I knew somebody would try and use it for publicity, but I believe I can turn it around just to show you how dishonest these people are and that's the case.And just to finish, if I didn't have a hostile judge in California this case would have ended years ago, would have ended a long time ago. OK, are you ready? So that took place with Rubio. Rubio's going nowhere, I think he's going nowhere. Hasn't won at all. They're fighting. Now what they want to do is they want to take Trump on individually. They're all fighting. I saw this morning, we should get out, this one should get out, that one should get out, Kasich should get out, he's a nice guy, by the way, even though -- but he's a little tougher than you think. He's another one.He's very nice, oh, just so terrible you're fighting, it's so terrible, it's so terrible. He's always on the end, you know, close to getting out. You know, when you're on those end positions, I won't mention what I told other people but when you're on the end position that means you're close to, it's close to over. But every time these two guys were hitting me he looks like oh, that's so terrible that you guys are fighting. You know, we should have peace.That's all good but the worst ads that were taken against me were taken by Kasich, and you know, like he's such a nice guy and he is. He's fine, but I'm in the -- I'm in New Hampshire, which we won. By the way, we won in New Hampshire. We won in Nevada. We won Nevada. We won South Carolina, it was so beautiful. And I'm watching them. I actually tweeted today we won South Carolina. We won South Carolina, what a great memory, and now I'm watching Bernie and Hillary fighting in South Carolina, and I have the victory on the Republican side.And you know what I saw, which was amazing, we had the largest turnout in the history of South Carolina. I won by tremendous numbers, right? Landslide, right? Landslide. Beyond. And don't forget that was supposed to be 100 percent Ted Cruz. That was going to be his, you couldn't beat him there, impossible to beat him. Not only did I beat him we killed him by what was it like, 20 points? Some unbelievable amount.I won with every single category. I won with women, with men, with evangelicals, with military, with the vets. We won with rich, we won with less than rich, we won with highly educated, we won with pretty good education, and we won with people that didn't do so much with the education but they're doing well anyway, I love them, OK. I love them. I love them. They're my people. They're my people.But we won with virtually every category and then we go to Nevada and we went -- I mean, that was a blowout. We just won with everything. And I felt it, because that was the caucus. I was a little worried with the caucus stuff because caucuses can get a little dishonest. Can I say that word, dishonest?Again, with evangelicals, with military, with everybody. So it's been like a great, great experience, and part of it is anger, and part of it is you're tired of the politicians. You're tired of guys --You're tired -- you know what? I'm tired and you're tired of guys like little Rubio who -- you know, little mouthpiece, goes like a mile a minute. We're tired of these people. They're never going to get anything done. They're never going to get -- hey, by the way, Rubio bought a house for $178,000. He sold the house for $380,000, probably the only good deal he ever made.To a lobbyist, who I think was in front of them or close to, in front of them up in the Senate, this was in Florida, wanting something approved. Now that's really dishonest. Rubio stole from the Republican Party, but you know what happened? They said you stole from the party. He says, no, I didn't. Yes, you did, you had a driveway built. No, I didn't. Yes, you did, oh, OK, well, he reimbursed them. OK?And for some reason he didn't get indicted. Why doesn't he get indicted? I guarantee you one thing Chris Christie would have indicted him so fast.But why doesn't somebody look into his house deal? Why isn't -- how can he make that kind of profit on a house to a lobbyist? And that's a problem.People are controlled up here by lobbyists, you know that, right? We have the lobbyists and the special interests that have total control over these folks, but not Ben, because Ben is not controlled by them, although I don't know, is he getting money from -- I don't even care, Ben's such a nice guy. And by the way, what Ted Cruz did to Ben Carson was a disgrace in Iowa. That was a disgrace.He said Ben Carson has left the race because he went to Florida. He was heading out to Florida, which is where he lives in all fairness. Ben Carson has left the race and vote for us. And at caucus, you know, you can actually take the people and walk around. I don't like caucus. I like you walk in to a voting booth, you walk, you vote and you leave like what you people are going to do, OK? I don't like this caucus stuff.But they said Ben Carson has left the race, vote for us, and they wine him and dine him and bring him around, I bet you thousands of votes, and I would have won Iowa in my opinion if that happened because these extra votes went to him. And you know what? Honestly, if we had a strong Republican Party, they would disqualify him for what he did honestly. I mean, if I were the head of the Republican Party, I wouldn't throw him out, you know, maybe for Canada we'll throw him out, we'll see about that.But -- because that's a serious problem. You know, he's being sued and I didn't sue him, I'm so non-litigious it's amazing, but he's being sued now. I heard he's being sued because was born in Canada, lived there four years. Who knows? I always thought you had to be born here like on this soil, right here in Arkansas.So we'll find out what happens. Hey, I hope that's not the reason he has to get out. I hope we beat them, but you know what? Ted has that problem, but if I were the head of the Republican Party, I would disqualify his Iowa situation. He also did another thing. Did you ever see that? Voter violation. Did you ever see this? It's like a fraudulent document. Looks like it came out of a government agency, so professional, says voter violation, and it talks about you're in violation of all these things.Listen to this. Essentially, this isn't exact but close enough. But if you vote for Ted Cruz and bring this in and vote for Ted Cruz, the violation is canceled. And you have people that honestly sort of believe it. I looked at one of them and I said, man, that comes right out of a government agency. That's a fraud. And I saw lawyers talking about it on some of these crazy talk shows and they said -- they said it's a fraud. I mean, it's like a fraud. I would have disqualified him from his victory in Iowa because you can't do business like that. You just can't do it. You can't do it.Then you take everybody, move them up a notch, now I won four in a row instead of three, I like that. And it doesn't matter. I got almost the same nun of delegates. I got one less, but doesn't matter. But you can't do that stuff. You can't do that stuff.And frankly -- but Cruz is smarter than Rubio, intellectually he's smarter than Rubio, but both they lie. You know, I deal in the real estate business. I deal in a lot of different businesses. I meet some bad people. I meet much tougher people than a Rubio or a Cruz, much tougher but I've never met people that could lie like these guys. These guys are world class liars. It's unbelievable.And I was helped in Cruz's case because Rubio looked at him and said "you're a liar," and he was actually right because he did lie about that particular point. But once he said he was a liar I was able to say he's liar. I know politicians very well. I've dealt with them all my life. A lot of them are bad people. You have some good ones, but you have a lot of seedy, horrible people, and I've never -- and I've seen some bad stuff, I've never seen a politician call another politician a liar. When he called him a liar, I said, great, now I can call him a liar because there was so much lying.But Rubio is probably a worse liar than Cruz. I'll pick at the end of three or four weeks, I'll give you my pick. Does that sound OK?So we have an amazing story. I have decided that, with my life, if I win, I'm going to do something that's going to be so amazing for our country. We're going to have great trade deals. We have the worst trade deals ever made in history. We have trade deals that are so bad. We have deals, period, that are so bad. The Iran deal, we give $150 billion to Iran. They're now spending that money.It's one of the worst deals, forget about country to country, one of the dumbest deals I've ever seen. But all of our deals are like that. That's a horror deal. That deal, those hostages should have been back four years ago. They should have been back before you started the negotiations.They go in, this guy Kerry, they go in, they go in, it's horrible. They go in, and you say we have to have our hostages back. And they'll say no, the Persians, great negotiators, Persians, always been great negotiators. They'll say no. And you'll say bye-bye, we're leaving, bye, enjoy yourself. Now they're sitting at a table, nobody on the other side of the table. And you let them know we're not going to negotiate until the hostages are released, and then you double up on the sanctions. You just go ratchet, ratchet, ratchet. Within 24 hours you'll be called. You got your hostages back, folks.Then I go a step further and I tell the story about my father, because my father did not give me $200 million. Believe me -- oh, I told you, my sister, she calls, and I have a great sister, a great brother, they both called after the debate. "Dad never gave -- are you kidding? Where's our piece of it" you know?It's unbelievable. Took $1 million, borrowed it, paid it back and that's morphed into 200. Part of the reason in all fairness to Rubio, he read that in the "New York Times." It was such a false piece the "New York Times," it's going out of business. It's the worst newspaper. It is a dead newspaper going out of business.I'll tell you why. Unless somebody buys it, like me, as a vanity project, all right, it loses a fortune. But they are the most dishonest people at the "New York Times." They'll write, they will write, they wrote a story about me a couple, few days ago. It was so wrong, they knew it was wrong. I said then pull the story. No, we won't do that. If you know the story is wrong why won't you pull it? And they admitted it's wrong. We won't pull it. They are really dishonest. "New York Times," I call it the "failing New York Times."It's very interesting, they bought "The Boston Globe." They paid $1.3 billion for "The Boston Globe," right, $1.3 billion. They spent a fortune, hundreds of millions of dollars on modernizing it, right? At the end of a number of years, they just sold it for essentially $1. They lost $1.5 billion. They have no money.They sell their headquarters, this beautiful, like the cathedral. I used to go there when they had real people running the paper. It's like a cathedral, old, beautiful building on I think West 43rd or 45th, 43rd, beautiful, beautiful building. They used to call it the cathedral to journalism. They sold it to move into a horrible office building that's a horrible office building opposite the Port Authority bus terminal, horrible.But they sold the cathedral and they sold it for, I believe, about $150 million. The guy that bought it, they're friends of mine, they flipped it for $525 million a short time later. And I say to myself, so why are we listening to their editorials? They tell you what to do, they tell you this and that. They write stories that are inaccurate. So why does anybody even read the "New York Times"? They lost $1.5 billion on a simple newspaper. They lost hundreds of millions of dollars. They should have never left their cathedral because now you walk into that place and it's like you're walking into, it's like walking down the concrete right here. There's nothing. It's just a very average office building with bars on the front of it. It's terrible.And I say why? My friend and the group, they made hundreds of millions of dollars just buying it, keeping it for a little while, selling it. And we're supposed to listen to the "New York Times." These people are incompetent, and they're bad people. They have a bad agenda. They're really bad people. That's one of the reasons I want to straighten out the libel laws so that we can go after them because these are really bad people. These are really bad.So what we're going to do is we're going to make trade deals that are going to be fantastic. We're going to get our best, and we have the greatest negotiators in the world. We have the best. We use political hacks to negotiate with China. With China, we are losing right now $500 billion, with a "b," a year, billion dollars a year, OK? That's our trade deficit. We have a trade deficit of China, with China, $500 billion. We have a massive trade deficit with Japan. They bring in millions of cars. You look at those boats in Los Angeles, they bring in millions and millions of cars. It never stops. We send them beef. We send them beef, that's the deal, OK, which is a fraction. And they don't take the beef. You know what happens? It goes back and forth, and finally they take it, they call it aged, it's Kobe beef and they sell it for ten times more. That's what happens. That's what happens. But we don't get the price, they get the price.OK, but with Japan, same thing. With Mexico, they're killing us at the border, they're killing us with trade. You saw the other day Carrier just moved to Mexico, Carrier. It's very sad. Somebody had their cell phone going to take in the shots, everyone is devastated. And 1,400 people gone. Ford moved to Mexico, $2.5 billion plant. Nobody did anything. That was two years ago. Now they're doubling up and going to build more there. I would have let them have it so hard they would never have the guts to build more there, never have the guts.Nabisco, Nabisco just moved their big plant where they make Oreos which we don't eat anymore, right, no more Oreos. That's a good thing. That's a good thing. But Nabisco just moved their plant from Chicago into Mexico, OK? No more.Let me tell you about Carrier. I watched it because it just happened a week ago, and I watched these people, they were devastated. They were there for a long time. Good people, good air conditions, I buy a lot of Carrier air conditioners. I'm not buying them anymore, but I buy a lot of Carrier air conditioners. And I saw this executive up front, we're going to close our operations and we're going to move to Mexico. Lots of luck, folks. People are devastated.So I went to the Wharton School of Finance, which is considered the best business school. You've got to be very smart to get into that school, very smart. The Rubios of the world could not get into that school, believe me. They don't have the capacity. Actually Cruz could, in all fairness, Cruz could. I don't know that he has the temperament. But academically, certainly. But I go to Wharton, I'm smart. You're smart. But you don't have to be smart. How do we solve the problem where all these countries are moving into these places and people like yourselves and friends of yourselves and people that I know are losing all their jobs? We're being devastated.So here's what we're doing as an example Carrier. I would call Carrier through one of my people, because it's not cool if the president calls. The president is calling an air conditioning company. Listen, I don't like what you're doing. I may make some of the calls. They're going to say it's terribly un-presidential, but I don't care, all right?They'll say it's un-presidential. When Vincente Fox, the former president of Mexico --When he used the f-bomb, I thought it would be a national thing, because I know if I used it, it would be the biggest story in the history of the world. So he used it, nobody cares. And then he was so angry. You know why he was angry? Because they're used to getting their way, right? They're used to getting their way. How dare they do this? How dare they say that? And I won't build that, you know what, wall. We will not build that, you know what, wall. See? I've learned.By the way, I don't use that word. The words I use are peanuts compared -- that word I couldn't, I wouldn't be able to get off the airplane. Do you like the plane made in the United States?Boeing, made in the United States. Speaking of that, Iran just ordered 118 airbus planes, nothing in the United States. They just ordered a lot of equipment from Italy and all over Europe. They just ordered missiles. I didn't know they could buy missiles with their $150 billion. They just ordered missiles from Russia, nothing from the United States. They capture our 10 wonderful sailors, they put guns to their heads, they put them in a begging position. They were scared and frightened, and they let them go two days later, because, you know what, the money was going to pass. If the money was not going to pass, if they already had the money, the billions and billions of dollars, they would have kept them. But they wouldn't have kept them if I won the race, that I can tell you. They would have been out so fast.They would have been out so fast.So, so with Carrier, I call them up, I say, folks, congratulations on your new plant. I think it's wonderful. I love that you're building it in Mexico, it's great. I hate what you ask with the 1,400 people and more. And this is also United Technologies just to shame them because they laid off additional people where they're going to Mexico. Mexico is becoming the new China. You better be careful folks. And their leaders are much smarter than our leaders, and they are ripping us not only at the border but they're ripping us like crazy with trade.So I'd say to the head of Carrier, congratulations on the new plant. But here's the story, folks. Every single air conditioner that you make as it passes the border, and we will have a real border, OK?We will have a real border, the illegals will not be able to carry those air conditioners in, OK, because we're going to have a real border, and we're going to have a wall and it's going to be a real wall, folks.And by the way, congratulations, Mexico, you're paying for the wall, just so you understand. Congratulations.So I would say to them, every air conditioner that you make that goes into the United States and over our border, every single one, you're going to pay a 35 percent tax on, OK?Now some of the stupid people, because I'm a conservative person but I like to say I'm a conservative person with common sense, all right. Some of the stupid people say oh he's not a free trader. No, no, I'm a smart trader. I'm a fair trader. I'm a free trader, but it's got to be fair. When China is making $500 billion on trade deficits, I'm not a free trader, folks, because when you try and do business in China, they charge you tax. I have many friends. They can't do business in China. They can't get their product into China. China dumps it over here. You can't get it over there. When he does get it in, it's a big tax, OK.So I'd say to Carrier, congratulations, but you're paying the 35 percent tax. Here's what will happen. I'll do it early before they start building, I like to get them -- here's what's going to happen. Mr. President, no, you can't do that. That's not free trade like all these stupid people, they talk about free trade. We want free trade, Mr. President. That's not free trade. I'd say, here's the story. I'm just telling you, every single unit you make comes over that border, you're paying a 35 percent tax, and that's going to make up for all the jobs we lost and everything else. And I hope it works in your bottom line.So here's what will happen. If I am one of these characters like a Rubio, take a look at who is giving him money. Look at the guys giving him money. Take a look at the guys giving Rubio money. Take a look at the guys giving Cruz money. I'm not even blaming them. It's the system. But when those guys need something, it's 100 percent. Look at the lobbyists, look at the special interests giving these characters money -- 100 percent control over them. They have 100 percent control.Me? I'm self-funding. I'm not doing the money thing.So I'm putting -- you know, I think somebody said to me, I said the other day, how much have I got? I was always proud of the fact -- I think I'm in it for over $25 million already. I didn't have to spend any money. I didn't have to spend any money. But within I'll tell you what, and that's a big thing. I don't think I get credit for that. I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm the only one in either party. I'm self-funding my campaign.I'll go a step further. I think I'm the only one in many, many years. I mean I don't remember anybody, maybe Ross Perot many, many years ago, but I don't remember anybody self-funding. They all take money from these people.And during the debates you probably saw that. Somebody would get up, make a fool out of himself, and they're all standing up clapping like he made a good answer. I'd give a good answer and it was like dead silence in the room.And I had friends in the room. I said, boy, that's a rich room, because I knew a lot of the guys, lobbyists, special interests. And one of them the other night actually is laughing, having a great time, waving at me. He's a friend of mine, and then booing me when I give an answer. He's boo, boo, boo, and he's like that.They're all playing games, folks. In fact I just spoke to him. It's cute, it's fun. It's life. It's the way life is, OK, it's the way life is. But that room, those rooms were packed. They're packed with special interests and they're packed with donors and lobbyists. And those people have total control over the people -Man. And we got the endorsement yesterday of Senator Jeff Sessions. It's an incredible thing. And we have Sarah Palin, and we have so many incredible people.We have, I will tell you, Jerry Falwell Jr. You know, we're winning at every level with evangelicals. Jerry Falwell Jr. did -- was unbelievable. And maybe that's one of the reasons that we have had such help. But the evangelicals, the Tea Party people, we're winning with old, we're winning with young, we're winning with highly educated.We're -- right?We're winning with a little bit less than highly educated, which is OK. I love you. And we're winning with the veterans. I love the veterans. We're winning with the military.In other words, we're winning with everybody. So, I just want to thank everybody. It's been so much fun. Who would have known this was going to happen?So I have a special treat. I love NASCAR. Do we love NASCAR?I love it.So, we had an endorsement a little while ago, and my son Don is very, very friendly with the folks over at NASCAR and in particular Brian France. And how good is Brian France? Is this guy like a winner?And, you know, I have grown up -- and George Steinbrenner of the Yankees, he was a great friend of mine and so many of the owners. And, honestly, Brian France, there's nobody like this man. There's nobody like him, the job he's done. And the family is so incredible.So some of the NASCAR friends came over here today, because, guess what, they are endorsing Donald Trump. Can you believe this? Can you believe this?You know, I will tell you what. If the people that like watch and NASCAR vote for Donald Trump, they can cancel the election right now. Nobody can win. Nobody. Nobody can win.So, what I want to do, I will bring them up individually. But these are incredible. First of all, the owner, the whole deal, the big guy, Brian France. Brian, come on up here.Come on up. He's getting pretty dapper. Used to be on the beaches of Daytona. Look at him.Brian, we love you. You want to say a few words, Brian, before we...All right. So we have some of the great drivers. One of the great drivers of the world in history, the great, the legendary Bill Elliott. Come on, Bill.We love Bill.Bill.Oh, do these guys have guts. I could not press it. I'm telling you.I want to go about 60. That's enough, right, for most of us. So we have Ryan Newman.Great, Ryan. Come on up here, Ryan.We have David -- you know who I'm going to say? David Lee Regan.David, come in. Come in.And then, because of genes, he was really helped a lot. Bill and his incredible wife had a son, and the son -- you got it -- and the son -- I don't know. Are you going to be upset if he turns out greater than you, Bill, or are you going to happy? He's going to be thrilled.That's a good father. That's a good father. I know a lot of fathers have a son that becomes successful, they're not happy. That's a great father. And most fathers are that way.Chase Elliott, the hottest young driver in the world.Thank you, fellows. That's cute. They just said, keep that wall going. We're going to keep the wall going, believe me. Believe me.So it's been an amazing period of time, and, you know, I just have to thank NASCAR so much, because that's something that to do is just incredible. These are incredible people, incredible athletes.Brian is an incredible guy who I have known for so long, and the job he's done is legendary. So I just could not be happier that they were here.I just want to discuss a few other things. Tomorrow is a really big day. We have to get out and vote. You know, I don't want your money, because I'm self-funding, right? I'm self-funding.I don't even want Brian's money. Brian is good for some money, but I don't want Brian's money. What I want is I want everybody -- I guess I just heard we have 13,000, 14,000 people outside. They hear me very well. We have a good mike system.But I just want you guys to go out and vote. We have the head of "TIME," one of the top writers of "TIME" magazine here. He did a story three, four weeks ago talking about a movement.And I said, what are you talking about? You're going to do another story? Where is he, by the way? Where is David? Where the hell is David? He did such an amazing story, and he's talking about a movement.This is, in fact, a movement. This is not, like, me. This isn't about me. It's about you. It's about all of -- I'm just the messenger. And I'm just the messenger, folks. And there's not -- there's never been -- they have said -- I have gotten calls from a lot of the biggest writers. The media is back there, a lot of media, but they're very dishonest people, but some are good.Not -- oh, they're terrible. They are so terrible. They are terrible. But, you know, no, 20 percent of them are good, 80 percent are bad, 40 percent are disgusting.But the end result, it doesn't make any difference. What we have going is so special. It's incredible. It's incredible.So the big thing, and I'm going to -- I will tell you one more time before we finish, which will be in a little while. We will talk about a few things, like the wall. We will talk about, like, not getting ripped off in trade, like rebuilding our military, like taking care of our vets.But I just want to say, so I'm self-funding. That means that nobody is going to say, oh, please, well, I gave you a contributor. You have got to help me with the pharmaceutical industry, or you have to help me with something.No, no, there's not going to be any of that. Do you know that, in bidding, that we're the largest purchaser of drugs in the world, right? In the world, by far. So, I mean, drugs like to make you better, right? And do you know that, in bidding, we don't bid. It's like if you go out to buy, to get some drugs at your local pharmacy, the government is paying a similar amount of money, that we would save billions and billions of dollars.Now, the problem is that all of these guys that I'm running against, they are all taken care of by the pharmaceutical industry. They are taken care of by all of the industries. And when it comes time to bid, they say, oh, no, no, you can't have them bid. They gave me a million dollars or they gave me $5 million.It's a bad system, and we're going to change the system. We're going to clean it up. We're going to clean it up.Do you know, we could save as much as $300 billion if we went out and bid, $300 billion? That gets to be big money, right? That gets to be big money.The numbers of fraud, waste, abuse in the system are incredible. We're going to take care of Social Security. We're going to cut in terms of -- not cut what you are getting. We're going to cut all of the waste, fraud, abuse. And we're going to save you Social Security without cuts. Mark my words.And we're going to have something that's going to be so exciting.And, look, I deal with these people. Now, I have dealt with politicians all my life. Somebody said, oh, Donald hasn't been political. I have gotten zone changes. I have been over the world. We're doing over 114 projects right now all over the world, all over.And I have dealt with politicians. I have dealt with politicians worldwide. And I want to tell you, they're never going to get you to the promised land, folks. They're never going to do it.And I saw this -- like this little Marco Rubio, this guy. I call him lightweight. I call him lightweight Marco. No, I see him. I'm on the stage.You saw Chris Christie endorsed me the other day, right? Great guy. Tough guy.And a few weeks ago, we're at one of the many debates. These debates, they're just brutal. They're coming out of my ears. Who wants to do any more debates? It's enough.And we have another one coming up, I think, on Thursday. The last one, I was double-teamed, and I won. Every single poll had me winning. Can you believe it?And these two guys, I see them backstage. They're talking. You do this, I will do that. You do this. Don't cut me off. And then they're high-fiving.And there actually is one picture where I'm standing here in the middle. By the way, I have been in the middle from the beginning. Brian would like that. I have been in the middle from the beginning, from virtually the time I announced. The middle means like that's the one that's winning.And I have been in the middle right from the beginning. And that's great. But I see these two guys. There's a picture in one of the newspapers, big picture. I'm standing here like this. There's a little bit of a break and they are both behind me shaking hands, like, oh, isn't everything wonderful?So, every single online poll -- Drudge is an incredible guy, by the way, incredible -- Drudge, "TIME," Slate, everybody, every one of them. Every single event, I have been number one in this whole thing with the crazy debating.And the reason is, I have never done this before. I'm not a politician. These guys, all they do is talk. It's all talk, no action. They debate, they talk. Nothing gets done. They then go to get campaign contributions. Yes. I promise I will do this. Will you give me a contribution?That's what they do.But I am so convinced that our country can be greater than ever before. I am so convinced. That's why I'm doing this. Greater than ever before.But this guy -- I watched him, and he's standing there. Think about this negotiating with the Chinese. I do a lot of business with the Chinese. I've made some great deals. I have the Bank of America building because of the Chinese. Big chunk of it. I have 1290 Avenue of the Americas. That's Sixth Avenue in New York. The largest floor, just about the largest floor. Massive building. Chinese. Ideal -- I have the largest bank in the world. The Chinese bank says 400 million customers. Largest in the world. They're a tenant of mind in one of my buildings in Manhattan.I sell tens of millions of condos. Dealing with the Chinese is fine. But their leaders are too smart for our leaders. They're killing us, folks. And we can't let that happen anymore.Carl Icahn is one of the...Thank you, thank you so much. What a turnout. What a turnout. Wow. Thank you. I want to thank for all, boy I'll tell you. I love tough people, you need tough people and he is a tough cookie. And when we got his endorsement we were thrilled I will tell you that. He is a great guy. You know, I was doing a little bit of a thing called the debate.Get him out, please, get him out. What are they doing, right? What's the purpose? What is it? Well I guess a little television time I guess.But, you know, I was going to the debate. I was going directly in from Florida. I'm down in Florida. We're campaigning. We're doing really well in Florida. We're campaigning against a guy that has the worst voting record in the history of the state of Florida named Rubio. He's -- I call him lightweight. He's a lightweight, but -- got the worst record in the history Florida, is I don't know I should do well there. Let's hope I do well there. I love Florida. But I was going to Detroit and I said to my people, I have to stop in Maine. I felt so -- I just had to stop in Maine.So I wouldn't say that it's a very direct route, would you say? Instead of going this way I went this way and this way and that is good. I'm so glad. And, you know, to put this in incredible sold out crowd and you have thousands of people outside to put this crowd together in a period of what, 24 hours? And Maine is amazing, you know, Maine is one of the most beautiful places on earth. And people don't realize how large your land mass is. I was talking to Paul. As large as all of New England when you think of it that some piece of land, can I buy some, please, can I buy some? Can I buy some.So, you know, I've been watching with great interest as we get to, you know, down the line. We've had some amazing results. And right nearby with New Hampshire it was amazing, incredible thing. And by the way every single time I went to New Hampshire whenever I met with people they always say number one problem, number one problem, heroin, number one problem. And I'd say how is that possible? You think you look at these beautiful fields and the beautiful little roads and everything is so beautiful. And it was number one problem. And it comes from our Southern border and we're going to close up that border and we're going to build a wall and we're going to stop the drugs from coming in, believe me, we're going to stop.And people are going to come into our country but they're going to come in legally. They're going to come in legally. But we're going to solve the problem. But you know I watch these pundits and when I first started my wife Melania and I, we came down the escalator, right, and I first started and it was an amazing thing I said, you know, we have to do something because we have people that don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they're doing in running our country. And I got some of that today, you know, just hearing some of these things. But they don't know what they're doing. We have to do it. And it takes guts to run for president. I'm not a politician. I'm not a politician. No talk no action, nothing gets done.And anyway we're coming down and I said to myself, you know, there are so many things and then I watched the pundits and they said, Trump, I don't know we have some great talent running. And I'm trying to figure out where, where? What's the talent? What's the talent? But you know, you come down and you do it and you start talking about trade and you see what happens with trade. Trade has been such a disaster.But the pundits all said, you know, I came out at 3 percent first one. My wife said, you know if you run you're going to win but you actually have to run. You can't say you're going to run because they won't poll it, but even if they do poll it people still say you're not going to run. She said, but if you run you're going to win. I said, oh, she's my pollster, she's my pollster, I pay her less money but she is my -- she is better than the pollsters.So, you know what happened? I started at three the first day or something I was at three, which I wasn't exactly thrilled about. Then it went up to six, it went up to 12, it went up to 18. And then it kept going up. And every time I went up, the pundits would say he's plateaued. You know, plateaued. Well, he's always going to get six. That's a six solid group. Then I went up to 12.Well, you know, that is a solid group. Then I went up to 24 and they said, don't forget that is with 17 people. We had 17 people that's a lot, 24 with 17 people is pretty good. So, we went up to 24 and they said well, that's the max it can be anymore. Then we went up to 28, 32.So CNN just came out with the poll, Trump 49, nationally. That's high, that's high, and, you know I'm very proud of it because this is not a plateau. This is movement. We have a movement going on, folks.Time Magazine did a story, but recently a couple of weeks ago talking about what's going on and they have never seen anything like it. People have never seen it. They say actually and I don't think I'm exaggerating this at all and I don't want to exaggerate, but many of the great writers of which there are very few because the media is among the most dishonest people I ever dealt with.But they said, they said that in the history of this country there has never been anything like this, what's happening. We were in Huntsville, Alabama, the other day. We had 35,000 people, 35,000 people. We went to Arkansas which you saw we won. I was at another one. Get him out, get him out. They just don't stop. All right, get him out. Thank you. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Terrible. Incredible.Now you know you can be nice, but if you're nice they'll say, oh you were so soft. Then you can be vicious, get out of here, right. And then they say you were too harsh. So I've developed a nice, all right please get him out. It's incredible -- I love you too, I love you too, I love you too.And by the way, you know, I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm putting up all my money I'm not, but you have to do all I want -- I don't want your money. I just want one thing your vote on Saturday. Get out and vote. Don't forget I did that big long turn, slightly long, it is a big turn, so you can get out to vote, OK? At least you can. So, thank you. Thank you, very much.So, our country and our team is, "Make America Great Again". And over the last little while I've met so many people, thousands and thousands and thousands of people. We have like this. Now, this is -- we're only confined by size of the room. This is packed but this is the size of the room. Thousands and thousands of great, great Americans and I have more confidence in this country now than I ever have had before. I have seen, I mean, millions of people, really, because when you get 35, 40,000 people for rallies and we have by far the biggest rallies I will say that. And Bernie is second, he is second but he is distant second but he is second. I have to give him credit for that.But we have, by far the biggest and I see by far the most people. And this country has unbelievable people that love our country. Just remember that.And I want to see the day in to not-too-distant future when Apple makes their iPhones in this country and not in China and all of these other places. Now, I heard, and I saw just a little bit of it, but I heard that Mitt Romney made a fairly long speech and I mean honestly I though I'll just address it quickly because it is irrelevant. Look, Mitt is a failed candidate. He failed. He failed horribly. The third -- he failed badly. That was a race I have to say folks that should have been won. That was a race that absolutely should have been won. And I don't know what happened to him. He disappeared. He disappeared.And I wasn't happy about it I'll be honest, because I am not a fan Barack Obama and that was a race and I backed Mitt Romney. I backed him. You can see how loyal he is. He was begging for my endorsement. I could have said, Mitt, drop to your knees, he would have dropped to his knees. He was begging. He was begging me and did you see how great he said, Oh I'm not big like him, that he's a great businessman all that stuff.Well, since then, I have done much better and now he tries to demean. But we'll talk about that in a second, but Mitt was thinking about running again. He ran a horrible campaign. It was a campaign that should have never been lost. You're running against a failed president. He came up with the 47 percent he demeaned 47 percent of the people in our country, right? The famous 47 percent.Once that was said I'll be honest. Once that was said, a lot of people thought it was over for him. Then the last month and a half he disappeared. And I called his people, I said you have to do yourself a favor. Obama, say what you want, he was on Jay Leno, he was on David Letterman, he was all over the place the last three or four weeks.Mitt was looking for zoning for nine car garage or something in California, right. I said, what is he doing? Who cares about a garage you're running for president. And Mitt was a disaster as a candidate. So, what happened, and it was very strong, and I think if the press goes back, they will see it.When I heard he was running again, and I wasn't sure I was going be running, but I was very, very strong to Mitt and to everybody and publicly, not to talk to him, because I didn't want to talk to him. I was so disappoint in him, because he let us down. He let us down. You know, it's one thing you lose and you work and you work and you go, he let us down. He should have won. Something happened to him. He went away, he was gone.He was horrible in the third debate. It was a horrible, something happened. I don't know what happened. Maybe someday, they'll write a book, his campaign guy was terrible, terrible, he had a terrible campaign manager, who's always on television at Stuart Stevens, or something. He's always on television knocking everybody.The guy ran one of the worst campaigns in the history of the modern politics. And Mitt ran, probably it was the worst run that most people have seen. Because most people thought that the Republican candidate would win.So, when Mitt started raising his head a few months ago, I was very strong. I said, Mitt Romney should not run. He's a choke artist. And I said it very strongly. I wanted to keep him in. And then Jeb Bush actually convinced Mitt not to run. Can you imagine, Jeb, Jeb sold him. Jeb, he's a good salesman. See now that he's out, I'll say Jeb's a good salesman right? He's a high-energy salesman.But, Mitt was afraid of Jeb, because he was afraid that Jeb would get the money and Jeb would get the whatever and, you know. I wasn't afraid. I wasn't afraid of Jeb, I can tell you that.So, what happened is Jeb Bush convinced Mitt not to run. Mitt was going to run. It was going to be a third attempt. The second one being one of the great catastrophes, the first one just didn't happen, so that's OK, but the second was a catastrophe. And what happened is he went to see Jeb. And Jeb had him convinced that he is going to run, he's got the money, he's this and Mitt chickened out.But, I'll tell you the real reason he chickened out, it wasn't Jeb, it was me. Because I said he's -- if you remember, Mitt was all set to run. I know this from people that are close to him. And I think he probably still has a desire maybe at the convention to try and get some kind of a thing.Hillary Clinton will destroy him in the election. Assuming she's allowed to run, assuming she's not arrested for the email situation, which is so terrible, which is so terrible. I mean, so terrible. But, let's assume that the Democrats are going to protect her. Let's assume that I will be running against Hillary and I really want to, I would love to run against Hillary.And by the way, we have numerous polls that show me beating her easily. And I haven't even started on her yet other than four weeks ago, I did, remember? She called me sexist, and I hit her with the husband and that was the last time I ever heard the word sexist. That was it, so, that was it. They had a rough weekend. That was a rough weekend. Bill was not happy. I guarantee you, he said, don't you ever say that to him again, say it to somebody else, but not to Trump. That was a rough, rough weekend they had.But Mitt was going to run assure as you're standing here, I'm sorry we didn't get you seats, it's too many people. But, he was going to run, and I was very, very angry that he was going to run. I didn't even know I was going to be doing this, but I felt I wanted to. You know, NBC came to me, they wanted to extend The Apprentice for two seasons, 28 episodes. Steve Burke, now, Steve Burke of Comcast, great guy came up to my office with the people at NBC, please Donald, we like you to run, we like you to, you know, not run, we'd like you to run in The Apprentice, to The Apprentice. The ratings after 14 seasons were still fantastic, they were still great.And I said, Steve, I think I'm going to run for president. No, no, no, you're not. No, I think I'm going to run for president. But, they didn't want me to because they want me to cast the show does great. And ultimately, I decided to run and you're not allowed by law with equal time laws, you're not allowed to do both.And we chose Arnold Schwarzenegger. Let's see, how will Arnold do by the way? Does anybody know? Who would be better, Arnold or Trump. Ready? Arnold? Trump?Well, we're going to find out if Arnold is quick, because, if he is not quick, he's not going to look good. When you have Amoroso and all the other ones coming at you, you got to be quick, you got to be smart. We'll find out. We're going to learn about Arnold, but I hope he does well. I hope Arnold does really well. But, I was going to do that and they, I mean, they actually renewed the show with me in the up fronts. And I just said I can't do it. I'm not going to do it. I gave up a lot of deals, I gave up a lot of things to do this. It takes a lot of effort, those people trying to get in. Can you believe it?OK. How about everybody now, clearing out, we'll let a new group in, is that OK? No? So, anyway, so, when I heard Mitt was going to run, a little before this period of time, I was very tough. I said, he can't run, he can't run. He was going to run. He can't run. Then I started to say, look we got to keep him out, because he's going to loose. He's a choke artist, he's an absolute. And I started hitting him so hard. But, people said, why did you hit him so hard? Because, we cannot take another loss, we can't take another loss.And Mitt is indeed a choke artist, he choked and he choked like I've never seen anyone choke other than Rubio, when Chris Christie was grilling him. That was one of the great, chokes. Oh no, Rubio of Florida, that was one of the great chokes I've ever seen. He was standing there, shaking, sweating. I was getting ready, I'm standing here like this, he's right over here, I'm getting ready to grab him, because I thought he was going down, I'm telling you.But, Mitt did a big, big, choke. And we had to keep him out. So, look, a couple things I heard he said, first of all, you know, he doesn't mention the fact that I built a city on the west side of Manhattan, that I built buildings all over Manhattan. He didn't mentioned under this that he talked about a beef, and he talked about a water of company, which, by the way, I still have. I supply all my clubs with the water. You know, numerous of those things, I have the magazine, other things. Get him out of here. Get him out. Get him out.Hey, by the way, speaking of Mexico, I won the Hispanic vote by far in Nevada, right? We won the Hispanic vote in Nevada in the polls during that. We won Nevada, we won South Carolina, we won New Hampshire. Then we had the big, big Tuesday where we won a tremendous number.And I have to tell you this, so, ultimately, Mitt chickened out. And now, he is saying, before we see as Hillary is very weak. And now, he is saying, I wish I won, I wish I tried it. But, ultimately, he did didn't, because he would have gotten beaten very badly. But, I'll tell you what, a couple of things were mentioned that we have to discuss.First of all, when he talks about me, I wrote just a couple of them down, when he talks about me, they don't want to talk about 92 story buildings all over the place. They don't want to talk about the Bank of America building in San Francisco, 1290 Avenue of the Americas. They don't want to talk about the West Side railroad yards, where I built the city on the west side of Manhattan, a tremendous city on the west side of Manhattan.They don't want to talk about 40 Wall Street and all the buildings. They want to talk about water, which I still have. I supply all my clubs. I have a water company. They want to talk about a magazine, and I have a magazine. It goes to all of my clubs. You know, what little, tiny thing, you know, wherever you can find -- by the way, at school, little deal, but very, you know, I'd loved it. And when I was there, they called a Trump University, Trump Initiative.But, I will tell you, just so you understand on the school, the school had 98 percent approval rating. But, you had your attorney that felt, oh, maybe I can sue Trump and get something, the school had a 98 percent, in other words, 98 percent of the people that took the courses, we signed report cards. That's why you can't settle a case like that.You put somebody up on the stand, did you write this? The most beautiful thing, they did a commercial, they took it down, where two people were going and saying negative, and then we showed them the statement that they wrote. They had to take the commercial down, because 98 percent of the people that took the course, that took the courses said really wonderful things about it. The other thing, it's got an A, an A from the better business bureau.So, I say how do I settle a case like this? A B+ would be OK, too. B+ would be OK, but we did better than a B+. So, I can -- and here's one thing I say about business. I watch these bankers, and they get millions of dollars a year, 40, $50 million. Frankly, it's ridiculous. And then they'll settle with the government if they're sued by the government for $2 billion, $3 billion, $5 billion, $12 billion.And I say to him, why don't you fight it? And he said, well, it's the government, we don't want to fight. Well, I said, you've got to fight it, because if you don't fight it, everyone's going to sue you. And that's what happens. Did you ever see it? They settled for 2 billion, the next week, they get sued again.You've got to fight these things out. You have to do things, you have to do what's right. So, with the university, I knew I could get some bad publicity, but I have to do what's right. Do we agree with that, by the way?So, it's a very small case, it's a civil case, it's not a big deal. And I'm going to win it in court and it'll cause me more money to win it in court that I could settle for, in my opinion, but I'm going to win in that court. And I said, oh this lousy timing, because it was too bad, it wasn't a little bit later, because I happen to be to running for president, but I have other suits too.Any businessman or businesswoman has lawsuits. People sue to get their money back, they sue for this, they sue for that, they sue for a million different reasons. So, just so you understand, 98 percent approval rating, and A from the better business bureau. We're going to win the case. Mark it down, we're going to win the case. It'll be forever, because it takes forever, but that's the way it is. I don't like to settle cases, I don't like to do it. Because, once you settle cases, what happens is everybody says "he's a settler, let's sue." That's not me. A lot of people don't sue me because they say, "it's too hard."So one of the things, one of the things that Mitt brought up which I think is so serious, he said about trade. We have to keep trade. Nobody knows more about trade than me. I mean, I made so much more money than Mitt. You know I have a store that's worth more money than Mitt. It's a store.And actually, it was funny, because I made that statement jokingly when I was in Iowa. And "The Des Monies Register,'' a paper that's actually a terrible paper if you want to know the truth, but they called up, they said, "Oh, that's a terrible statement, that's a terrible statement for you to make that statement about.'' And the people put me on, they said, what do you say, because if you said you have a store that's worth more than Mitt. So let's say Mitt's worth $150, $200 million. I said what's he worth? They said, $150 million. I say, "Yeah, the store's worth much more than him." It's on Fifth Avenue. You know, Gucci, the Gucci Store.So I said, "Yeah, its worth much more." We don't believe a store is worth $150 million. I said, "Well, go ahead, go get a couple of it.'' They actually went out and got three appraisers, and they said, "You know what? That store's worth from $400 million to a billion two." And by the way, this isn't me talking, you can go check your local "Des Moines Register" if anybody -- if it's still open. I'm not sure it's still open.But anyway, but I built an amazing company. And, you know, one of the reasons you know it's amazing, the hottest development, the hottest development site probably in the history of the General Services Administration, the GSA, that's the government service, is the old post office site. That's where the post office built in Washington D.C. an entire block fronting on Pennsylvania Avenue. In other words, if I don't get there through the White House, I'm getting there anyway. OK, folks?And fronting on Pennsylvania Avenue, one of the most beautiful buildings in the country and incredible. It's a landmark building. And the GSA for many, many, many years has owned it, and they've wanted to develop it for 30, 35 years, and it just sort of never worked out. Big job and never happened. And then they went to bid, and in bidding it, they had more bidders and more high-level bidders, I think, than they ever had before. So let's just assume, just about, it's just about the hottest job that they've ever put out to bid. Every hotel company wanted it. I actually got it on building a 300-room super, super luxury hotel. But they bid it, and every hotel company, every office company, everybody wanted it. So they went out to a public bid.And one of the things in choosing the bidder was, how strong is the bidder, and how good is the bidder's idea. Well, they loved my idea because what we're going to do, I'm serious, this will be one of the great hotels of the world. It is now two years ahead of schedule. It's going to open in September. We're supposed open up in September in two years. We're two years ahead of schedule, and by the way, the GSA people are terrific people and we're under budget a little bit. In fact the only reason we're only a little bit under budget is that I'm using marble instead of terasa, not a bad idea, right? So, etcetera and a lot of different things but we're going to super end, the highest end.And the reason I got chosen was, number one, my financial statement was so strong that it could guarantee completion because they didn't want to have a mess with a billed 25 percent then it goes out of business. And number two, we had the best idea.So when I listen to this myth -- and by the way, this isn't the Obama Administration, in all fairness. I wouldn't say I had an advantage. In fact, I said to my daughter, she was very much involved with that. I said, you know, maybe, maybe we're not going to get it no matter how good we do. But my financial statement is so strong, and I, by the way, put it in -- you know, Romney talks about taxes, right? Why isn't he doing his taxes? Maybe there's -- you don't learn anything from, very little do you learn from taxes. Very little. You know, you look at a taxes, you can't learn very much.But I did file almost 100 pages of financial statements with the federal elections. And it shows that I have a net worth that could be over $10 billion, probably over. And I don't want to do that in a bragging way. I tell you because that's the kind of thinking we need. We have $19 trillion, as Paul was saying, $19 trillion in debt. It's the kind of thinking we need. I have very low debt. I have tremendous cash flow. It's an unbelievable company that I built. I filed my financials. So when he says, "Oh, maybe there's something in his tax return.'' There's nothing. But I get audited every single year.And because the company is so big, they audit, I understand, Fortune 500 companies every year. Because my company is so big or some other reason, which is unfair, but because my company is so big, let's leave it at that, they audit me every year. I think it's very unfair that they audit me every year, but I've been audited every year for many years.Now, when the audits finished, I'll release my tax returns. I have nothing, but I don't want to do and nobody in this room would say "you're being audited, and here's the tax return." You get audited, you finish up the audit, routine stuff, you finished. And then you release the tax returns.But if anybody wants to, like Mitt, would like to go down and go to the federal election office, you'll see almost 100 pages of financials that were filed ahead of schedule. I could have delayed it for six months. I filed them within 30 days. And believe me, I had to worked hard with the accountants. The accountants worked overtime, because I didn't want them saying, "oh, he's asking for extensions." So that's really the thing.So with Mitt, I just wanted to tell you that he came out. It was very nasty. I mean, I thought he was a better person than that. I did help him. I raised money for his campaign. I actually had two fundraisers for him. In fact, the first fundraiser was so successful that we had the second one that same day. His wife, was a lovely woman, by the way, a really lovely woman. She came up. We had a fundraiser in my apartment at Trump Tower, and it was so oversubscribed. I did a great job. They couldn't have cared less about him. In fact, a lot of them said, "Donald, he's a stiff, he's not going to win.'' I said, "Oh, he'll be fine." He's a stiff. I should have listened to the guy. But we had a fundraiser and it was so big, and it was raining out. I won't forget this one. I was raining and really raining. It was a miserable, miserable day. And the people came in hundreds of people, phase one. And then we said, "There's too many people to put them in one."So we called for another one an hour later after it ended one hour. And because everybody's shoes were so wet, I ruined my carpet. That's why -- this carpet was wiped out and nobody thanked me for the carpet. Hey, maybe I can send Mitt a bill for carpet ruined, right?But I always, you know, when you help somebody, when you help somebody. He asked me to make robocalls. I made six robocalls for him. Every single place I made the robocall, he won, North Carolina -- there were six different places. So you help somebody and then he turns.Now, I will say this, I will say this, I will say this, he probably had a right to turn, because nobody could have been nastier than me in getting him not to run by saying he's a choke artist. And I will say the reason I did that, he was going to run. I love our country too much. If he would have run and even if he would have won, it would have been bad. He doesn't have what it takes to be president. That I can tell you. He doesn't have what it takes to be president.So, I do want to mention one thing because it works so well, because his speech was long and he covered so much territory, it was ridiculous. And you're right, he didn't mention any of the many, many, many buildings. We're building now over 120 jobs and in the works over 120 jobs all over the world. We just got Turnberry in Scotland, one of the great places of the world. Dural, where they're having the tournament today by the way, they're having the World Golf Championship today. And I'm in Maine. I'm in Maine with you. I don't know.Rory, and Rory Mcllroy, everybody's down there. And Tiger's going there later too. Look, he's going to be better. He's going to be fine. But they're all there. They're all at my place and here I am making a speech in Maine. OK. See?So if I don't win on Saturday, I'll say, "Boy, was that a mistake," right? Anyway, I think we will.But I will say this, look, trade. He talked about domestic.Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye. Get him out. Get him out. Get him out. I love you too. These people. I'll tell you what, your police are fantastic. Do we love our police? Do we love our police? Where would we be without them, in all fairness. They are so abused. And, you know, one stupid incident or bad incident or if there's one bad person, which happens, out of the whole country and it's the biggest story in the news and a place forever. And people don't realize how great a job the police of this country do. I have to tell you. So -- so one of the things that Mitt was talking about, it was domestic policy, and we need trade, and we need trade, and we have to deal with China, and we have to deal with all these people.Look, last year in the terms of a trade deficit we lost with China, $500 billion. OK? We lost with Mexico, that's why Mexico is going to pay for the wall, folks. Mexico, look, the wall, we need -- actually, it's 2,000 miles. We're going to pay -- we need a thousand because we have a lot of natural barriers. Just so you understand, wall's going to cost $10 billion. It's expensive wall, that's going to be a Trump wall, I'll bring it in under budget and scheduled to buy it, but it's going to be and I have to name it after myself because maybe, you know what, should I name it after myself? I don't think so. We want more than a wall.But we're going to have a real wall and it's going to be a great wall and it's going to work and we're going to stop drugs from pouring into Maine and New Hampshire and all this places. It's going to work. Believe me. It's going to work. Wall is work, properly done, walls work, and it's going to happen.But, but just so you understand, they come up to me, and they say, but Mexico will never pay. The politicians, people that are on the dais with me, but Donald, next first, they said there's no wall, right? You keep that wall, how can you build a wall? China built a wall that's 13,000 miles long 2,000 years ago. We can't do one when it's a thousand miles right? Believe me, we can.So now they realize that. And the other day I hear this guy Cruz saying, we can't build a wall. And then I hear him saying, we're going to build a wall. And my wife came, "Darling, could you come back and listen to this"? We're going the build a wall, first time I heard him say that. And I don't know if Rubio said it. And I think Rubio's got bigger problems than worrying about walls.But now all of a sudden they're talking about walls. But here's the thing. We have with Mexico a $58 billion trade deficit. If the wall costs $10 billion, that's a tiny fraction. If the wall cost $10 billion, I guarantee you, folks that Mexico is going to pay for the wall just as sure as you're standing there.Now, a politician wouldn't say that. And you saw this Vicente Fox, the previous president -- who, by the way, threw a horrible word out. He threw the F-word out, OK, the F-bomb, he threw the F-bomb. Can you imagine if I used that word? Man, that would be a big story. That would be all over the world. He threw it out, nobody cares.And then we had our vice president apologize to him. Now, look, I love Mexico. I love the Mexican people. I have many, many, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of Mexican people, thousands over the years, thousands have worked for me.The Hispanics are phenomenal people. I told you, I won the poll in Nevada. These are phenomenal people. I won Nevada, and I won with the Hispanics, which is so good, right? So good but -- but look, here's the problem, their leaders are too smart for our leaders. We're getting killed at the border, we're getting killed on trade.Nabisco is moving in from Chicago, they're closing their big plant. They're moving in. You look at Ford, Ford's building a massive, massive car complex there. That means they're closing places in Michigan, great places, Michigan and other places, and they're closing, and they're going to Mexico.We can't let that happen. The other day carrier announced air conditioners. I buy carrier air conditions, it's good air conditions, I'm not buying them anymore. They announced 1,400 men and women are being laid off, and somebody has a cellphone going, right? A lot of you saw that, big, big story, 1,400. And this manager was, well, ladies and gentlemen, we are closing our plant, we're moving to Mexico, bye-bye. He was pretty tough for this was not a guy with social grace, believe me. So they're going to move to Mexico.So here's what we have to do, folks. Mitt Romney said we have to keep free trade, right? Well, if we keep free trade the way we have it now, we're not going to have any companies left at all. And you people know more about NAFTA than anybody, OK? Anybody, because you know how you were strip with the NAFTA, which was a disaster, but we're going to do something much different, we're going to be smart people now, OK?I built a tremendous fortune, and believe me, I started off with very little. You know, they like to say, oh, my father. My father, if my father would have given me 200 million in fact, my sister and brother called me up they said, "Don, what are they, kidding? These people are such liars". I borrowed a tiny amount of money, started something, and now its worth billions and billions and billions of dollars. And I will tell you something, with the carrier plant what you have to do is you have to be smart.So this isn't free trade. We have to have smart trade. China charges tremendous tariffs and taxes when you want to sell. I have a friend who's a manufacturer. He makes great product. He puts it into China, they send it back. Puts its again they send it back. The third time they take it, but he has to pay a tremendous tax. He sees me, he goes, "Oh, Donald, you have no idea how tough it is to negotiate with China". They don't want the product, and when they take it, they charge you a tax.That's not the way it's supposed, that's not free trade. Now, China when they sell their product to us, no tax. Come on in, folks, take our jobs, everything else, no tax, no nothing. Not going to work that way. Mexico, the same thing, so Ford goes up, builds this $2.5 billion plant, they're going to make cars, trucks and parts, right? And they're going to send them into our country. No tax, where is that good for us?So when I watch a guy like Romney, who truly is a lightweight, when you watch a guy like Mitt -- no, no, think of it. He's talking about trade. And I love free trade. I am a free trader. You know, a lot of the conservatives they say, Donald Trump does not like free trade. Isn't that terrible? I want smart trade. I want trade where at least there's an even balance, right? I don't want to be losing $500 billion a year. I don't want to be losing $58 billion a year. I want to make money, or I want to break even at worst, OK?So I tell people if you had a lightweight Rubio as president he would, he's all controlled by the special interests, 100 percent. He gets all his money, I'm -- and remember, I'm self-funding they're not paying me anything.So he gets his money, if you have a guy like Ted Cruz getting a lot of money from a lot, from oil and other places, OK. So, I mean, honestly, that's the way life works. So what happens is oil, 100 percent. They'll get a lobbyist who took care a 100 percent, they're not going to do anything. Me, it's different so here's what I do. The Carrier, tell Ford, until whoever wants to listen, and it's the only way you can do it, folks, the only way we're going to stop this tremendous outflow of companies is the following.And by the way, Pfizer, great, great, massive company, drug company, pharmaceutical company, leaving, going to Ireland. Wonderful, that's wonderful. But you're not going to take advantage of us, OK? You're not going to take advantage of us. So here's what happens. Let's use Carrier as an example. I know it's not presidential. In fact, my wife called just before, she said, "Darling, would you please react presidentially? Be presidential. Like you were the other night when you had all those victories, you stood on the stage, and everybody liked it". I said, "Yeah, but I have incoming, when you have an incoming you can't be too presidential yet". Right that does makes, I said, "I have incoming".So here's what happens. You know a lot of truth to that. They said, act presidential tonight. I said, I'll act presidential, but if somebody hits me, I'm going to hit him back harder, right?So what happens, you know, it's one of those things, so what happens is they will not do anything because the lobbyists will call and say you cannot do anything to Carrier, you cannot do anything to Ford. And they'll say, oh, OK. They gave you a $2 million contribution or a $5 million contribution, you can't touch them. They've been very loyal to you. They've been very good and they'll go, all right, OK, go that's the end of right, all those jobs gone.Here's what I do. I call up and I'd like to use one of my guys, you know Carl Icahn, great businessman who endorsed me. Many of the great business man endorsed me and women. I have a lot of endorsements from businessmen.I'd announce them, except nobody cares. But these are the most important people in a sense because I will use the greatest man, we have the greatest business people, the greatest negotiators in the world.But I -- this is so easy. I want to sort of do it myself, but it's so unpresidential for me to be calling up Carrier. I'm the president of the United States. And I call up and I say, "Hi, Donald Trump, president of the United States. I hope, I hope you enjoy your stay in Mexico. I hope you build a beautiful, beautiful factory, beautiful plant. And I really want to wish you well. But let me just tell you something. You moved out, you hurt 1,400 people. These people were devastated, by the way, I watched it. And they've done a great job.You hurt 1,400 people, and there's no free trade because it's a totally imbalance. I mean, their politicians are so much sharper and smarter and street wise than other ours. I say here's the story, every air- conditioning unit that you make and every single air-conditioning unit that you make and comes across the border into the United States, we're going to charge you a 35 percent tax, OK? 35 percent tax, and that's it.Now, here's what happens OK, as sure as you're standing here, look they're going to call their lobbyists, oh you're going to speak to the president, you got to -- but they can't speak to me, because I didn't take their money. I don't want their money, right so that's not going to work.Here's what's going to happen. As sure as you're here, they're going to call me up within 24 hours, and they're going to say, Mr. President, do you have any second thoughts that's absolutely not, this is sir, we've decided to stay in the United States.Very simple, you decide, now, we can be cute, or we can say we're coming up with, you know, in Washington they're playing around with all sorts of formulas. There is no formula. That's the formula. So when Mitt made the statement, he said he will ruin free trade. Ruin free trade? If I'm losing $505 billion with China, if I'm losing $58 billion a year with Mexico in terms of deficits, what do I want that kind of trade for anyway? Ruin it? Who needs that kind of trade? Seriously, who needs that kind of trade?Now, Mitt admitted that I'm a much better businessman than him, and I am, I'm a much, much better businessman than him.We will actually have better relationships with Mexico, we will have better relationships with China. They'll respect us, they don't respect us now. They think we're the dumbest people on earth led by the world's dumbest people.Now look, look, let me just tell you something. China, in the South China Sea, is building a massive military fort with runways and a tremendous complex. They're not supposed to be doing that. They didn't tell us. They have no respect for our country.With me I'll cut -- I'm going to rip up those trade deals, into we're going to make really good ones. And by the way, we have the cards just so you understand, remember, I wrote "The Art of the Deal" which I know fairness, I think the number one selling business book of all time.But just remember this, we have the cards. We have rebuilt China with the money they've taken out of our country for many years, in all fairness. We have -- I call it the greatest single theft in the history of the world, what China has done to our country. You going to try in there, trains it go 300 miles an hour, we have trains that go chug, chug, chug and then they have to stop because the track split, right? They have trains that go 300 miles an hour. They have trains Japan, China, a lot of countries. We have, we're living, we're like third world. Where -- you go to our airports, you go to LaGuardia, you land in you go to Dubai, and you go to Qatar, and you go to different places in Asia, and you see airports like you've never seen. Then you come home, you land at Kennedy, you land at LAX, you land at LaGuardia. Oh, LaGuardia with the path holes all over the place, OK?I mean, it's just a very sad thing, what's happened. What's happened to our country is very, very, very sad. So we're going to make it a lot better, and we're going to make it different, and we're going to get rid of those horrible trade deals. Because let me tell you, at some point it's going to burst. At some point we can't continue to lose $500 billion with individual countries. We can't continue. You add it up. Whether it's India, whether it's Vietnam, whether it's anybody, every single country in the world that deals with us takes advantage of the stupidity of the United States, and a lot of it is they have the right lobbyists, they have the right negotiator, they hire the right people on Pennsylvania Avenue.We have, they have right people and they negotiating with hacks, political hacks. Not our best people, almost our worst people. So we're going to make our country so strong. We're going to make it strong militarily, very, very strong. You know, our military's is very depleted.Our military is depleted, very badly depleted. And everything sort of the whole country is depleted and we're going to make our military strong. We're going to take care of our vets, our vets are created horribly. Horribly. We going to get rid of Obamacare, and we're going to repeal it and replace it.We're going to bring education local. We're getting rid of common core which is a disaster. You know, in the world, in the world educationally of the 30 countries that they look at, we're number 30 in education. Meaning, we're the worst. And yet per-student costs, number one by far. Number two doesn't even exist, it's so far back. Number one, so we're number one in cost, number one, and we're number 30 in terms of success. So we're ranked the worst and yet we spend the most, OKAnd part of that is common core. It's terrible. Part of it's a lot of other things. Part of its theft than incompetence and waste and fraud and abuse and everything else. But we're going to straighten it out. You know, it's very interesting. When I won New Hampshire, they came out with a report. Donald Trump spent $2.5 million, and I won't mention names, but other people spent $45 million, OK?I don't think he likes me. Do you agree? But think of it. Wouldn't it be nice? So I have the lowest expenditure by far, and I have the biggest result by far. Way, way, way number one. Wouldn't it be nice if we could do that for our country instead of the other way around? It would be nice thing to do that, that's what we're going to do. So we are, very simply, we're going to make America great again, we're going to win, win, win. We're going to win so much, you're going to get so tired of winning, you're going to say, please, please, let us have a couple of losses. I will say, no way. I'm not going to let you we're make America great again, and you'll say, OK.Thank you very much, I love you. Please go and vote on Saturday, I love you. Thank you. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.They're going home. That's bad. Does anybody want to give up their place to the people outside? Is there one person in this whole room? Raise your hand, please. No one. OK. That's good. That means we want to be here, right?So we have had an amazing period of time. You know, I started this whole journey on June 16th. And from practically the time I began until now we've been in number one position. Can you believe that? Amazing.And a couple of days ago, CNN came out with the latest poll where we're 49 for Trump, Rubio is 16, but after last night -- little Marco -- little Marco. Do you know that in Florida they hate little Marco Rubio so much -- it's true -- because of the fact that he never votes. He never shows up to vote. So wouldn't you think -- I mean, actually, if you use -- I'll use the phrase -- a word that he uses, he has conned the people of Florida into voting for him, and I'll tell you what, they are angry because he never shows. He has the worst voting record in all of Florida. He has the worst voting record in the United States Senate, and one of the worst voting records in the history of the United States Senate. I don't think he's going to do too well. They are angry at him. He couldn't be elected dog catcher.So Cruz is at 15 and Kasich is only at six. I don't know. That sounds low. And we just signed on to -- you know, Jeff Sessions just endorsed -- he's really one of the greats, one of the greats in terms of law and order, in terms of border, in terms of judicial, but Jeff Sessions just came on and actually he's a very good friend of Cruz, and Cruz could not believe that it happened. But Senator Jeff Sessions, highly respected, great guy.And another one in terms of the border, Sheriff Joe, right? Sheriff Joe. So we're doing really well. And it's -- it's been amazing. And we're going to talk about today trade, we're going to talk about borders. We're going to have a lot of fun, even though it's -- you know it's fun -- it's sort of interesting. We're going to talk about cars. We're going to talk about -- we're going to talk about that.Don't worry, folks, we're going to be building the wall. We're going to build the wall. Are you ready?And who is going to pay for the wall?Who?You better believe it. Said -- you see where the former president of Mexico, Vicente Fox -- he said, we will not pay for that f wall! Now, could you imagine if I said it? And he said it. He threw out the f bomb. And I'm just saying to myself, if I said it, I probably wouldn't be here today, right? This guy used the f bomb in a major interview with CNN, or somebody, and I want to tell you, that was shocking and a disgrace, and I think he should apologize to the people of Mexico and to the people of the United States. We are calling on him to apologize.And -- he said he will not pay for the wall. So we've come a long way because he actually said, I will not. And it's interesting when he says, I will not, right? He doesn't say Mexico will not. He says "I." So he thinks a lot of himself.But he said I will not meaning Mexico will not pay for the F wall and I thought it was a horrible thing. And what's interesting is that at least now he knows the wall is going up. He didn't say, we're not going to allow a wall. In other words, we've come a long way. He now said he's not going to pay for the wall. Before he used to say, we will not allow a wall. Now he says, we won't pay for the wall. He will pay for the wall, folks, OK? He will pay for the wall.And you know what happened when the press called up and they told me about it and they said, well, do you have a response? I said, the wall just got ten feet higher, you know? Ten feet higher. We don't play games. We're not playing games. We're not playing games. We are not going to play games. There's no, no, no games with us.You know, the thing that bothered me about ex-President Fox is the arrogance, the way -- you know it wasn't so much the wall. It wasn't that we're not going to pay and they're not going to pay for the wall, what he said. It was, he couldn't believe that the United States would actually be asking them for something. The arrogance. He couldn't believe -- how dare you ask us, the hatred and arrogance of this guy, because they're used to getting their way 100 percent. They're not going to get their way anymore, folks. They're not getting their way.I said, yes. So I did want to get the word out, folks. You know? I didn't want to go the rest of my life having everyone say I have small hands. I've heard of worse things but who needs it, right?I want to thank you all, really. I mean, it's amazing. This crowd, look at that. All the way up to the rafters. All the way up, unbelievable. Unbelievable. Unbelievable, and the fire marshal, you know, we have thousands of people outside. We have lost about 10,000 people. They have had to leave, but we still have thousands of people, and I think because the police are so incredible, we love our policeAnd your fire departments and everything, they are going to try and let another few hundred people come right up here. I said, don't worry about it. We are not going to have any problems. OK? So we're going to fill it in, and it is great.You know, the one I work on most when I go to a site are five marshals. They are my most important people, because they're the ones that let us pack -- you know, nobody has crowds like we do. Nobody. And you take a look today. Here's a day.Now in all fairness to you, right now I'm supposed to be at the Cadillac world golf championships at Trump National Doral, and I'm here. I'm here.And I just left Rory -- actually, I just left Kansas and hopefully we'll do well in Kansas, and Kentucky, and you know, I have is a list. Look at this. New Hampshire, we won. South Carolina, we won. Nevada -- Nevada, we won, in a massive landslide. That was supposed to be for Lyin' Ted Cruz. Lyin' Ted. He holds up the bible, and then he puts it down and he lies. I don't like that.And you know what? That's why I'm winning virtually every category with the evangelicals, who I love. And you heard today Paula White, who was fantastic and I appreciate Paula's being here, but Pastor Paula White was so great. And you know, Jerry Falwell Junior from Liberty University was so great to me, and he doesn't endorse people. He doesn't do it, but he felt this was important.And remember this. Every one of the candidates goes to liberty. They all go to Liberty. They speak. When he endorsed me, that was a great, great thing.All right. So we won -- we won Nevada big. We won Georgia in a landslide. We won Tennessee really big. We won Alabama in a massive landslide. We won Vermont, Vermont was incredible. Vermont -- everybody thought that would be Marco. Marco didn't even show up. By the way, he doesn't show up to vote for the Senate. He doesn't show up, so why the hell should re show up to Vermont? Right? Yes?We won Virginia. We won Arkansas. We won Massachusetts. Many polls have come out that I easily beat Hillary Clinton. And I want to tell you, you know, you don't hear that on television. You watch these dishonest pundits, well, Trump can't win the general election. We will beat her so badly folks. We will beat her so badly.I used to listen to Jeb Bush before he flamed out, and they say, Donald Trump cannot beat Hillary Clinton. And I said, why can't you beat me? Right? He got nothing. Low energy. Low energy.And his people are now on television fighting me saying, we have to stop Donald Trump. He's not going to beat Hillary Clinton. They work for Jeb Bush, and I say, to my people, you know, I have these debaters, right? I say, why don't you just say he worked for Jeb Bush and they were terrible? But I see it all the time. We are going to beat Hillary -- I'll tell you something. The one person that Hillary doesn't want to run against, I will tell you this, is Donald Trump. That I can tell you.That I can tell you. And it's amazing. I watched it the other day where little Marco is going, well, Donald will not win -- I mean, this guy's got so many problems, I don't think he'll come close to winning his own state. How would you like to be this? I'm 21 points up -- I happen to love Florida, in all fairness. Truly, truly, my second home. I'm here all the time, as you know. All the time. I love this area, by the way. But I'm here all the time. I have done many, many jobs in Miami, with related and with George Perez and with, you know, Gil Dezzer and Michael Dezzer and we have had great success and we have many of the buildings on the Miami. We have a lot of stuff and it's been great.And as you know, Doral, and in Jupiter, we did a big job, very, very successful. And in West Palm Beach we did a big, big job, very, very successful and the Maralago club and many more. And in fact, tonight we are having our news conference, hopefully, it will be a victory conference in West Palm Beach. In West Palm Beach.See, with all the places I could pick, I picked Florida. I want to pick Florida. So we all love Florida. But I hear these people, and they talk about the general election. Look, the general election is very important, but I'm the one that's going to beat her. And I will say this. The one person that she does not want to run against is Trump.You know, she got a dose -- I didn't -- I haven't even -- folks, I'm beating her in many polls. I'm beating her in many polls and I haven't even started yet. I haven't started with her yet. Only once. Only once. Four weeks ago, she said something about me being sexist. Remember? And I'll tell you, the press treated me very unfairly. Because right after she said that, I attacked her, and Bill, and Bill. We talked about the word. We came up with the word, a very true word, enabler. You know what enabler is? And we talked about Bill. I said, you mean to tell me I'm bad but her husband's OK? Maybe one of the worst in the history of politics. Right? And I had to put up -- OK.This was a disaster for them. I guarantee you, they had one of the worst weekends of their life. This was -- this was not a friendly weekend that they had sitting together at home wherever they are at home, if they were together.So here's the story. So here's the story. Here's the story. We can't play games. Our country is in deep trouble. We have to beat her. It looks like she is going to make it. Bernie is gone. Bernie's gone, regardless. Bernie's -- Bernie had his time. You know, he had has time in the sun and I watched -- I've seen this so often with politicians. They blow it. What happens, he had his time in the sun. He was doing great and then they asked him the question about email a month and a half ago. Right? And he said, I'm tired of them discussing it. Like, in other words, they shouldn't be discussing it, and I said, bye-bye Bernie. You just blew the election, and I was right.But when I attacked Hillary, six weeks ago, people don't realize this, and the press gave me zero, and I want credit. Do you understand? You are the most dishonest human beings on earth. The most. They are -- disgusting, dishonest human beings. And I'll tell you -- well, not all of them. Actually, amazingly, because I'm no fan of the "New York Times," I had a front page story on the "New York Times." It was a in a phenomenal story. I can't believe it.Get them out here. Get them out! We had an amazing -- amazing story today on the front page. I'm going to have to be nicer to the "New York Times," you know? They give me all bad stuff, then I attack. Today was really, amazing, because somebody said, in the story that there's been nothing like this happen with this movement in the United States for over 100 years. Can you imagine? Over 100 years. And it's true. No matter where we go we are packed. We have the biggest audiences, the biggest crowds by far.I must tell you, Bernie was second. A distant second, but Bernie was second. Where are these people? Come on. Get them out fast. We want speed. There he is. Look, little wise guy. Little wise guy. A lot of guts. A lot of guts. I wonder who sent him. And you know, they send them in, by the way. It's very -- but I love -- I love my protestors. Because these guys never move the cameras. I say it all the time. I call my wife, Melania, by the way, has she done a great job on television lately? Right? Will she be a great and very beautiful first lady, right? And she's very, very smart, and she's got a big heart. I will tell you. She's got a great heart.But I love my protestors, because, I'll go home and see Melania, say how did you like the crowd? Didn't see it. What do you mean, you didn't see it? I heard it. You know, when you hear this crowd, you know there's a lot of people. Can you imagine where we had to have over 10,000 people not come in today? But I promised I'm going to come back. None of you can come here when I come back. None of you. We're going to let the -- OK?I also know you got here at 6:00 in the morning, many of you. So, pretty amazing. But we're going to come back. But can you imagine, I go home and I'll say, did you see the size of that crowd? We filled up Dallas, you know, the Mark Cuban, the Dallas Mavericks, they are wonderful team. They had a beautiful stadium.I spoke with Mark. I said, you know what? That will be good. He said, you would fill it up fast. We took it over Thursday. We filled it up on Monday, 21,000 people, nobody knew. And the reason they didn't know, number one, the reporters don't want to report it. They don't want to say. They had a case where Bernie -- it's unbelievable. That's why I like my protestors. The only time they move the camera, if there's a protestors up on the top in the rafters, they'll move it, because it's a negative thing in their mind. It's actually very positive.But you know, I'll tell you what. We have a thing going on here that's incredible. There hasn't been anything like it. The biggest story in politics, which really isn't talked about as much as it should be, is voter turnout during the primaries. Fifty percent up, 60 percent up, in some cases, 100 percent turn -- there it is, cameras! Look up there, camera. Look up there at the protestors, camera.Are the Trump rallies the greatest?You know, when little Marco has a rally, when they get 300 people, 200 people, its fine. I'm not knocking it. But that's sort of a normal thing. This is not a normal situation, folks. This is not a normal situation. So it's been an amazing period of time for me.You know, on June 16th I took a deep breath. This is not something that's so easy. I want to say. I took a deep breath --Thank you all very much. I want to thank you very much.What a good guy, Ohio. Oh, I love Ohio. I love Ohio.You know, I worked in Ohio for summers in Cincinnati, and I love Cincinnati.I had a great experience. It was early on and it was a job, and I bought it with my father. I bought it and it worked out really well. I stayed here, I ran the job myself. I was very, very young. And I bought it for this and I sold it for this and I looked good and I felt good. It's like sinking that first putt or getting a homerun your first time at bat. So, I always had a good feeling for Ohio, and the people are amazing people. Thank you. I love you.I don't know if the media's getting this. I mean, here we have a full hangar, and we thought, and this is a big, big hangar. This can take just about anything. And we figured the crowd would be OK, and we have so many thousands of people extra that we had to put them out in the runway, right?They never want to capture that, just so you understand, right? They'd never want to. So, it's really fantastic. Let's address -- thank you, darling. I love you, too, darling. Look at this.Amazing. This is amazing.So, let's address yesterday, should we? Yes.So, look, we had a tremendous rally in Chicago planned. We were going to have over 25,000 people. The arena was seating about 11,000. We had registered much more than 25,000. So, what we did --And they were pouring in to the arena, good arena, everything nice. And all of a sudden, a planned attack just came out of nowhere, printed by -- and it was printed by people that were professional people. If you look at the posters, they're all printed. They have a mark on them who made them, all done by a group, all very professionally done, a disgrace, if you want to know the truth.And with these thousands of people -- and fortunately, we were able to let a lot of them know don't go, because we would have had a problem like you wouldn't have believed. Just like big Nick over here, he would have been in there and they would have wiped him out. That would not have been good.And we made a decision. We said, and I hated to do this because, frankly, it would have been easier to go. But I didn't want to see anybody get hurt. You would have had a problem like they haven't seen in a long time, Because we have people that are so amazing. And it's not necessarily loyal to me, it's loyal to the country. We want to see things happen. We want to see things happen. And they're loyal to the country. It's OK. "USA" is right.They're loyal. They're loyal to the country. They want great security, they want great military, they want to take care of their vets, they want a border, they want a wall, they want --We're going to build the wall, folks. Don't worry about that.Who's going to pay for the wall? Who?Do we have a good time? Do we have a good time? You know, it's sort of interesting. I watched -- well, I shouldn't say it, but I watched little Marco and I watched Lyin' Ted Cruz, Lyin' Ted. He holds up that bible, and then he puts it down and he lies. Lyin' Ted. Even Rubio said, boy, he's a liar, he lies about everything. And you know, I have the evangelical vote, and I've had great support from Jerry Falwell, Jr. and everybody, Sarah Palin, we have such unbelievable support. But I have the evangelical vote and I won in South Carolina all of the -- I mean, we did so well. And he was supposed to win in South Carolina, and I won in a landslide and we got the evangelicals.You know why? Because they don't like liars! They don't like liars. Right? True? So, anyway. So, but they said, just as I was coming in, I'm watching and I'm watching the news, and they said, well, at our rallies, we would never have anything like that. They don't have any people at their rallies, folks. There's nobody there. Nobody cares. If they had this hangar, they'd have about four people in the corner over there, in that little corner office. You know. And they'll call it a town hall meeting. Do you ever notice, they say town hall meetings? They always say, why don't you have more town hall meetings?I said, because I have too many people! Can't have them. So, anyway. I'd actually like to have a couple of town hall meetings, but I just -- you know, like, we have to turn away how many people, like 24,000? We'll have 500, we'll turn away 24,000 people. So, what happened yesterday was incredible. We dealt with law enforcement -- so good, so good. We love our police. We love our police. But we dealt with law enforcement at every level. Secret service, great, the whole group. And it was determined that if we go in, it could cause really bad, bad vibes. And you have to understand, they want me to tell my people, please, be nice, be nice. My people are nice.The people that came there were so nice. And let me tell you, the people that were there that came there, that were invited there, thousands and thousands of people, they caused no problem. They were taunted, they were harassed by these other people. These other people, by the way, some represented Bernie, our communist friend.Now, really, Bernie should tell his people -- there weren't too many Hillary people there. You know why. I mean, in all fairness to Bernie, the reason there weren't Hillary people, they have no fervor. There's no fervor. Say what you want about Bernie, at least they have a little bit of fervor, right? But with beanie, so, he should really get up and say to his people, stop. Stop. Not me. Stop. They said, Mr. Trump should get up and this morning tell his people to be nice. My people are nice, folks. They're nice.They're great. They're great. My people are great. My people are great. So, here's the story. So, we get up, and I make the decision, and the people in the audience were really devastated. You know, some of those people got there, like you, they got there like eight hours early. Now, they're standing there for eight hours, like you, right? Like you. Raise your hand. We love you people. Don't worry, I'll sign autographs. Don't let them -- don't let them rip you away from that position. No one's -- the only one who could rip you away is Nick Mangold. Him, we can't do anything about, right? So, anyway.So, what happens is everybody was fine, everybody was behaving, and what they've done really on the other side -- it was MoveOn.org or one of these groups -- bad groups. These are bad people. Let me tell you, these are people that truly don't want to see our country be great again. I'm telling you. I'm telling you that. And we want to get along with everybody, and we can get along with people. We're going to unify the country. Our president has divided this country so badly.He has been a -- I call him the great divider. You know, when he got elected originally, I said, you know, I don't think he's going to be a very good president, who knows? I hope, frankly, I wish he were. I wish I didn't have to do this. I wish we had the right people. I wish we didn't have to do it, but we have to.We have no choice. When you look at the Iran deal, when you look at the horrible trade deals where we're losing a fortune to every country we do business with, our jobs are being sucked away, our jobs are being sucked away. It's unbelievable what's happening. Our military can't beat ISIS. It's being depleted. It can't beat ISIS. Our veterans are being treated horribly. Our border is like a piece of Swiss cheese. The people just come pouring across. We don't have borders anymore. So, let me just tell you -- and on top of that, we have a divided country. We have black and white and every other thing, income groups, everybody hates everybody. Even in Congress. You look at Congress, you look at Washington, look at the politicians. The politicians hate each other. The Democrats hate the Republicans. The liberals hate the conservatives. We have got to change our thinking. Yes, and if there's a group out there, just throw them the hell out. That's OK.I want to thank everybody. This is incredible. Look at all of that media back there. Look at all of those cameras. Oh, boy. They know who to follow. I wish they could be honest. I wish, wish, wish.You know, before we had a tremendous, in Dayton we had a tremendous hangar, like this. It was packed, packed with people. And I was called by my people. They said, you were so tight in my face. My face took the whole screen. They didn't want to show the crowd. They didn't want to show the crowd. The whole thing was big.No good, right? No good. Very dishonest people, I have to tell you that.So you know, I have to thank -- before I even begin, but I have to thank a couple of friends of mine. They're incredible people. They are just incredible people. Oh, so early. Look at that. Look at that. Look at that. Shocking. It's -- do we love our protestors? Right? We love our protestors. All right, get them out of here. Get them out.Where do these people come from? You know, Bernie was saying, Mr. Trump should speak to his crowd. Mr. Trump -- you know where they come from? Bernie's crowd.They're Bernie's crowd. Yes, thank you. Get them out. Good. Every five minutes or so one of Bernie's people -- and sometimes Hillary -- but there's not a lot of flavor and not a lot of fervor with Hillary. So you don't have too much of Hillary, I'll tell you. So, anyway.Thank you. Oh, where do these people come from? But I want to introduce two friends of mine. They've done an incredible -- an incredible job. They love Cleveland. They love Ohio. They own this place. They run it beautifully. Patrick Park and Raymond Park, come up for a second, Patrick, Raymond -- get up here. Patrick, get up here. Come on. What a great guy. Where is Raymond, Patrick? Get Raymond. Come on. These two folks they employ a lot of people, they spend a lot of money in the area, and I just wanted to thank them very much. Come here, Patrick.Look, it's a Bernie person. It's a Bernie -- hello, Bernie. Hey, Bernie, get your people in line, Bernie. Get your people in line.Can you imagine Bernie saying that Trump should get his people under control and they put in these people.... just a little while ago and the whole thing, it's been so unbelievable. It's been so unbelievable that the kind of crowds we've had have been -- you know, they're record setting. Wow, look at all these people. Look at all that press. Look at that. Look at that.We love you. We love you. We love you, Missouri. We love you, Missouri. We love you. I could do it as though I came here but then I wouldn't be legit because I know it is Missouri and we like it. Thank you all for being here.So we have a big, big day coming up on Tuesday and I think that it's going to be hopefully record setting. All over the world they're talking about what's happening, all over. All over the world they're talking about it. It has been such an honor, but they're talking about it as a movement. We're going to take our country back. We're going to make America great again.Oh yes. And we're going to beat Hillary Clinton. I assume it's going to be her. We're going to beat her very badly. And we haven't even started on that one yet, but we're going to beat her very badly. We've got to do it. Otherwise, we're all wasting time, folks. OK? And we don't want to waste time. We don't want to waste time. I want to say look, I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm putting up my own money.These other guys, they're all subject to whatever the people that put up the money, whether it's a Pac, they're subject to these people. They put up the money. Believe me, that's the people they listen to. I call them the bosses. They are the bosses. So with me, you're the boss, and that's the way we're going to have it.So we made some stops and made some speeches today. We had incredible crowd. We had incredible crowds. We went to Cleveland. We had 27,000 people in Cleveland and we went to Dayton, we had 20,000. We had it in a hangar. I didn't have to get out too much. I walked out the plane, it was unbelievable, massive hangar. Packed. The people came forward and something interesting happened. Did you hear about what happened?Not so good. Not so good. He just said, what happened here? Who knows. You have to be careful. We need strong courts. We need strong laws. You know, we're not playing on the same field. So should I talk about that or not? Do you want me to talk about what happened? See, that's the nice thing about not using teleprompters and not reading speeches, which would be so much easier. It would be so much easier.Boy, would that be nice. You get up, you read a speech, you read a speech, you leave 25 minutes later. Next. No good, right? That's no good. By doing it the way I do it, number one, there's a lot more enthusiasm, there's a lot more energy, to quote Jeb Bush, but a lot -- a lot more energy, and you can talk about things that happened 25 minutes ago. You know, when you're writing up speeches you can't do that.Someday I'll read speeches, but I really don't like doing it as much. But I do have something I'm going to read which I think you're going to find interesting.So I was in Dayton. It was an amazing experience. We had great crowds. We had a great group of people. It sounds like you have a couple of protesters back there. To hell with them.Is there? I don't know. Either they're protesters or they're great fans. Right? But -- but in Dayton -- so everything's going well. The crowd was really well behaved because as you know in Chicago we had a real problem. Get them out of here. Get them out. Get them out. I think they're Bernie supporters. I think they're Bernie supporters.And a little bit less Hillary. Hillary was saying Donald Trump has to stop the rhetoric, he has to stop it. And my people are great. It's these people that are the problem.So they're Bernie supporters. I'll tell you what, though, the police are so great. Thank you, police. Police. We love our police. They do such a great job. They do such a great job. So anyway, so yesterday in Chicago we -- hello, darling. Go home to mom. Go home to mommy. Go home to mommy. Look at those cameras the way they bend around. They'll do anything for a shot. That's why I love the protesters. The only way we find out how many people are in these places is through the protesters. So I love our protesters. And we don't want to hurt the protesters, please. We don't want to hurt the protesters. So here's the story.In Chicago, in Chicago, we had an interesting day. We had 25,000 people replying. They all wanted to be there. Fortunately, we could call them, we could get them. What happened is we had very professional -- very professionally organized -- the signs were made -- quiet. The signs -- the signs were professionally made. Bernie, you'll have to check. It's probably the same location.Get 'em out. Get 'em out. Get 'em out.Go, go, go, go, go, go!Thank you. You know it's really amazing. You know, when you think about it, you see this, just disrupter, bad people, so bad for our country. So bad for our country. People have no idea what's going on. So, so bad. So bad. Trump rallies? Does this happen with anyone else? Man! Unbelievable.Here's another one. Here's another beauty. Get him out -- oh, Bernie. Bernie. It's another Bernie sign. Get out of here, Bernie. Get out of here, Bernie. It's another Bernie sign. Get her out of here. That's a Bernie supporter, folks. Got the Bernie sign. Were you put in here by Bernie? Get out. Out!Get her out. Get her out. Where are these people coming from? Unbelievable. Where are they coming from? Unbelievable. All right. Thank you. Any other protesters in the room? Any other? They'll wear out. They get tired after a while. They get tired. That was a Bernie -- she had a Bernie sign, a big professionally made Bernie sign. You know. Bernie, Bernie, our communist friend who's running. What a horrible thing.So those are Bernie signs right off the printing press, and they put them in. He's not doing so well anyway. I guess it's going to be her. But we'll see. You go ahead. Take care of them. Get out of here. You know, if we do that to one of their rallies, you know what happens? Front page how bad we are, OK? Front page. We do that to one of their rallies, to Bernie or to Hillary, and they would say isn't that terrible, the press, the dishonest press. They're the most dishonest people in the world. They would say isn't that terrible?Isn't that terrible? Get her out of here. Get her out. You notice they're all singles? They're all singles. One here, one there. All right. Unbelievable. Exciting, though, right? Isn't it exciting? I mean, supposing this didn't happen, it really wouldn't be the same thing. Don't we agree? Wouldn't be quite the same. OK. Let's go. Come on.Look, everyone's so excited. You want to sit down? I love you people. All right. OK. Are they out? Are they gone? Watch. After a few minutes at another one will pop up. It will be a Bernie person. Oh, would I love to run against Bernie. Do you remember -- hey, wait. Do you remember when the two young women came up and took away his microphone and he went to the back like a little -- oh, they took away my -- that doesn't happen to us, folks. That doesn't happen to us.So we were in Chicago yesterday and it was amazing. We had 25,000 people coming, and we had disruption. They're disrupters. That's all they are, disrupters. Not a lot of people that you'd like, but you know what, I sort of want to like everybody. But these were absolute disrupters.And rather than go through the whole process, I didn't want to see anybody get hurt. I got plenty of time. Anybody in a rush? We're in no rush. We're in no rush. Get him out. Get him out. Get him out. Oh, look at those cameras. They're shooting. Isn't that nice? Get him out. Thank you.OK. Anybody else want to stand up? All right. Get him out of here. Get him out. Get him out. Boy, this place is packed. You know, we have thousands of people outside trying to get in. And these people are taking their place. It's not worth it. We have thousands trying to get in. Get him out. Anybody else? That's a lot of people up there. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.Unbelievable. Unbelievable what we have to put up with, what we have to put up with, you and me and all of us. And we're trying to make this country great again. And it's really hard with people like this, I tell you. You know, when you think about it, we want a strong military, we want protection. We want to take care of our vets. Think of it. We want a good home. We want a great family. We want education. We want great healthcare. We want all things. What's to argue with, right? We're looking for the same thing, as them as anybody else. What's the point in doing what they do? They're disrupters.Let me tell you, the reason they're doing it is because there's never been anything like this that's happened before. Because you know what, folks? We're going to take our country back from these people. We're going to take it back. These are bad, bad people. And we're going to take our country back from these people.We are going to take our back from those people, those people. They do nothing. They do nothing. We're going to bring it back. And we're going to make America great again, folks. We're going to make it great again. And you know, they're treated very gently, very, very intelligently. I told the police I knew there was going to be problems here. They said why don't you cancel? I said, no, we're not cancelling this time. Not going to cancel this time. And I told the police, you have weak people, and they're going to protest and they're going stand up as individuals, because they don't have enough to do it as a group. And they're going to stand up. Be very gentle when you take them out, very, very gentle, all right? So the police are doing that.That's a protester. It's actually when all of the room goes there they are, there they are. So now I have to stop. Whereas that voice, you can't even hear it. It's pathetic.But yesterday in Chicago, 25,000 people coming, we were going to have 15,000 outside. We had speakers set up. 10,000 inside. And we had disrupters. I call them not protesters. I call them disrupters. They had all professionally made signs. They're holding them up. It says Bernie on them, good old Bernie. He was a lousy senator. All of a sudden he runs. He didn't do a damn thing in the Senate.And you have Hillary. You have some Hillary signs up. And Hillary, frankly, let's face it. You look at what's going on in the primaries. They're down 35 percent. There's no excitement whatsoever. The Republicans, you know what, we are so far millions and millions of people are showing up at the polls to vote. Thank you. And it's for me.It's not for -- I tell you what. It's not for little Marco. And it's not for Lyin' Ted. OK. This is the biggest liar I've ever seen in my life. It's not for Marco and it's not for Ted. It is a great honor. I want to tell you. It is a great, great honor what's going on. Get him out. Get him out. Get him out. These people.And then you know what? And then the audience gets rough with them and the press says, how dare they, how dare they. Try not to get too involved up there. Don't hurt the person. Don't hurt the person. See, I'm a non-violent person. Did you know that about me? Non- violent. Try not to hurt the person. Thank you. Thank you, police. The police do a good job.Look at this. What they -- look at the abuse our police are taking from this person. No. Look at the abuse they take. Boy, oh boy, we're going to have to go back about 15 or 20 years, I think, folks. What we're doing in this country now, it's not working. It is not working. Just organized nonsense. It's just nonsense. You know, we have a first amendment right. We have a freedom of speech and we're not allowed to do that because of this garbage right over here. We're not allowed to do that.But we'll do it because we all have a long time together. That's OK. We'll do it. OK. I'm going to defend you, believe me. We're going to defend you. And I'll tell you if somebody like Hillary gets in, you're not going to be defended. It's going to get worse and worse and worse. They're going to end up with four more Supreme Court judges and you'll never recover as a country in a million years. We have something happening with us now. Millions and millions of people are going to the polls that have never gone. They're going out and voting on the Republican side. By the way, as I said, Democrats down 35 percent. Bernie doesn't inspire. It's a little group that want a free lunch. That's all it is. That's all it is.And Hillary has zero inspirational quality. Let's face it. So they're down -- just listen to this. From four years ago they're down 35 percent. We're up. I mean we have states 102 percent up, 75 percent up, 60 percent up. Millions of people are going and voting, ideally for me because I've won so much. But they're voting. They're voting and some never voted before.Many are Democrats. They came over. Many are independents and many, many, many are people that never voted before. When I sign and I'll do that in a little while -I hope these guys get thrown into a jail. They'll never do it again. It will destroy their record. They'll have to explain to mom and dad why they have a police record and why they can't get a job. And you know what? I'm going to start pressing charges against all these people, OK.And then we won't have a problem. And I don't want to do that. I don't want to ruin somebody's life. They're probably good kids, you know, they're probably good kids. I don't want to ruin people's lives. But, the only way we're going to stop this craziness is if we press charges.With that all being said, if you have any questions, please raise your hand.Yes.That has nothing to do with this, but that's OK. We met with Senator Sessions and some of the great people in Washington. And you pretty much know who was there, I would imagine. And we had a great meeting. We had a really good meeting.Yes. Well, I don't have a list now, but we have various energies. Yes, various senators and congressmen.We can provide a list for you, if you would like, OK?No, not at all. No, not at all. We're very inclusive.Frankly, Jeff and some of the other people just invited a small group. And we're doing very well. It looks like we're doing very well in Arizona and very well pretty much everyplace else. And I think we're going to maybe easily that number of the 1,237.We should make it pretty easily, based on what I'm seeing. So we won't have to worry about fighting at a convention.Yes.Well, I think I'm very different from Hillary Clinton, to put it mildly.I think we have a very different style. I don't think she will be one that's going to do much with our trade agreements, which are killing our country. People have no idea how important that is. The money that is being drained out of our country is enormous. And that's not her thing. It's totally my thing.I think she will be very, very weak on the military. I think she will be very weak with other -- frankly, with other countries and the amount of money we subsidize them without...... solvent. And we have to make our country, frankly, rich if we're going to save all these things. And we have to rebuild our military. It's been in very bad shape. It's decimated, just decimated over a period of years.And we have got to get the right equipment, not the wrong equipment. We have got to get equipment that isn't there because of political experience and political know-how. We want to get the equipment they really want, not the equipment that they're getting because politicians have access to certain companies.And we're going to rebuild our military. And I think that's going to be a big difference also.Well, she doesn't know anything about my policy. She wouldn't know anybody about it.Her policies obviously didn't work. All you have to do is look at Libya. Look at anything you want to look at. And they haven't worked. And I think if you look back at my projections and my prognostications, they turn out to be very, very accurate. Sir.Well, I'm going to make a speech about two hours, so...Well, I also said -- no, I said I what I said.Remember, I said that I want to look into it. I want to speak to governmental people in Israel and here. I want to speak to various senators and various people, including Senator Jeff Sessions, who's highly -- Jeff is highly respected. And actually Ted Cruz I think respected him more than any senator. And he thought he was going to get endorsed by Jeff Sessions and he didn't.Jeff Sessions endorsed me, which is a very big endorsement. And Ted Cruz still doesn't believe what happened. He couldn't believe it, because they work together. And it doesn't say much about somebody when you have almost no Senate endorsements. You have Lee, but you have almost no Senate endorsements and you work with the people all the time.So we worked very, very closely with many people, like Jeff Sessions. We worked closely with top people from Israel. And I'm going to be making a speech about it in a little while.Say it again.Not so much evolved. I said I want to make -- I was asked certain questions. I said I want to make a decision. I will announce it in the not-too-distant future. And that's what I'm going to do today at about 5:00. OK?Yes.Thank you.Are you talking about here? We're doing some of that actually already. We have been very much involved.Why, what are you looking for? What kind of a position? Come up here. Come here. She looks so smart and good.You mind if I do a job interview right now? We need good people. How are you?So what's your experience, in front of the world?And you like this building?OK, so here's what I'm going to do. There's the man. Stand right over here.If we can make a good deal on the salary, she's going to probably have a job, OK? All right. Good. Have a good time. Thank you, sweetie. Thank you.Thank you. So nice. Really nice.Yes, go ahead.Just to start getting together with some of the people that I have known over the years, politicians. In just about all cases, they were senators or congressmen. Jim DeMint was there, who I have great respect for, and some others.And we just had a really good meeting, just a meeting. And they can't believe how far we have come, because, you know, I think a lot of people maybe wouldn't have predicted that. I think people that know me did predict that. But some people would not have. And it was really just a meeting. It's a beginning meeting. But it was a very good one with a lot of the most respected people in Washington.Thank you. I feel so badly. Outside we have 5,000 people and they can't get in. I feel badly. I want to apologize. We have speakers outside. But I want to apologize. Who would have thought we have over 5,000 people cannot get in.... It's an honor to be here. It's an honor to be with you. And very important. You know, we're doing really well and millions of votes ahead of Cruz. Millions.You know, I get a kick. I call him Lyin' Ted. Lyin' Ted Cruz. He stands up -- and I win as you know, you've seen it. I have been winning all of the evangelical vote. But he stands up Bible high, puts it down and then he lies. You know, it's amazing to watch it.But he said, "Yeah, I'm the only one who can beat Donald Trump. I've done it time after time."And I said, "Wait a minute. I've won like most of the states."I think he had like 5 or 6 and I had 20 or 22. Right?And I said I can't believe it. And I have millions of votes more.He says, "I'm the only one that can out-vote him." And I'm saying but I have like millions of votes more.I'll tell you something so important. There is something happening. It's like a movement. It's incredible. It's a movement. And we're part of the movement.Not me. I'm a messenger to be honest. I'm a messenger.And this is something that's so special and so amazing and it's on the cover of time magazine. It's on the cover of every newspaper. It's something that has maybe never happened and they're saying it's phenomenon.Sometimes they say I'm a phenomenon. I'm not. The message is what we want.We want jobs. We want trade deals that are smart deals not stupid deals.And you know, Wisconsin. I wrote down some notes... and it's like devastating.So (Scott) Walker came out today. I wrote down notes about Wisconsin.Look, he certainly can't endorse me after what I did to him in the race. Right?But look at this. By the summer of 2015, Wisconsin was facing a $2.2 billion two-year budget deficit. That's terrible.By the way, these are out of books. Like this isn't Trump. This is out of books.Total state debt is $45 billion. Now, maybe somebody is going to tell me that's wrong but again these are -- $45 billion. Very high. One of the higher ones.20,000 fewer people in the labor force in Wisconsin than seven years ago even though population has grown by 100,000. So your population is higher.Now, I wouldn't have done this but he endorsed Cruz. What am I going to do? Am I going to say he's doing a great job? He's not doing a great job.You know, he comes in with his big motorcycle jacket and big Harley. I love Harleys. Right? But the motorcycle guys like Trump. They really like Trump.And he doesn't look like a motorcycle guy to me. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.Unemployment rate -- well, they say -- that can't be possible. Unemployment -- they have down 20%. That can't be possible. What? Is it 20%? Effective or regular? Effective unemployment rate 20%. Hey, this is out of the big book.800,000 food stamp recipients.Middle class hit very, very hard due to loss of manufacturing jobs. These are the stats. Right? You know about this, right?It goes on and on.Wisconsin has lost 15,000 net jobs to Mexico since NAFTA.Now, just so you understand, Kasich is running also. We forget about him. He voted for NAFTA.Both of them want TPP. TPP -- Transpacific Partnership. Both of them want Transpacific. That will make NAFTA look like a baby, and Wisconsin will be hit so hard.... But the motorcycle guys love Trump.I love the disabled veterans and the veterans. We're going to take care of our veterans. You know that, right? We're going to take care of our veterans.What is it about Trump that they like?I'm serious. We went to Hilton Head. We went to different places, and there were hundreds, hundreds of bikers out there. Beautiful bikes. Lots of Harleys, right? Lots of Harleys. Made in America. But beautiful, beautiful bikes...I don't know what it is but they like me. I feel good with them. I feel safe. I got out took a picture. Secret Service went crazy.I said, "These are great people. Don't worry about it."But listen, I appreciate it, fellas, I appreciate it.... We're going to keep you free. I'm going to keep you free.Because we're getting rid of ISIS.We're going to have good borders. We're going to have borders again. We're going to have borders again.So here we have something that's pretty interesting -- I love you too.You lost 70,000 jobs to China. 70,000 jobs.100,000 illegal immigrants living in Wisconsin. Taxpayers are paying tens of millions of dollars.Look, I don't know. I don't know.So what happened with Walker and I just will finish off with this -- he's a nice man. He came up to my office like about a year ago before I did -- you know, I've been a politician for about eight months, right? I never thought I'd be a politician. The last thing on my mind I want to be was a politician.But I built a great company. I filed papers. The company is incredible. Very little debt, tremendous cash flow, some of the great assets in the world.And I say that not in a bragging way. I say that because that's the kind of thinking we need, folks.We can't have China ripping us off and Mexico and Japan and Vietnam. We can't have it. We can't have it. And they are ripping us like they've never ripped anybody before.We've rebuilt China. I mean, we're rebuilding Mexico.You look the other day you saw Carrier moving down. Carrier Air Conditioning. I buy those air conditioners -- a lot of them. I'm not buying any more of them. But Carrier Air Conditioning moving to Mexico. Ford moving to Mexico.Nabsico -- home of the formerly wonderful Oreo which we don't eat anymore. Right? We don't eat it. We don't eat it. Number one, it's a good -- it's called an enforced diet.But you know what? Look, we're losing our jobs. Look at your jobs.When I see that statistic, I mean you're losing your jobs.When I went after your governor when he decided to run and I said, "You know, I'm going to be nice to him. He's a nice guy." The guy came up to my office. He handed me a plaque because I supported him. What do I know? I supported him. I gave $50,000 or $100,000. That's a lot of money for a guy you've never met before. Right? That's pretty good.But I like the fact that he was fighting, fighting, he was always fighting.You know, to a certain extent, I'd rather see somebody able to make a deal without having to go through all of that mess.But he was fighting and I gave him a lot of money and he came up, you know, a year ago or so and he gave me a plaque. Beautiful picture of something. I haven't -- I never really got to read it to be honest. And I put it aside. That was it...Because if we win Wisconsin, it's going to be like over, pretty much over. Because we're going to do great.... Emerson poll came out. I think I have 67%, 68% in New York compared to like 10% or whatever, and you have Cruz talk about New York values, New Yorkers are no good.I watched New Yorkers rebuild the World Trade Center. I watched New Yorkers dying.Believe me, New Yorkers are good. New Yorkers are very good. But Cruz said they're no good.So anyways, so I think we're going to do great in New York.We're going to do great in New Jersey. Chris Christie endorsed me. We'll do great in New Jersey. Good guy.Ben Carson endorsed me. Sarah Palin endorsed me. Sheriff Joe from Arizona. We love Sheriff Joe.And you know, with the evangelicals, I've had so many ministers. I've had so many pastors endorse me. And Jerry Falwell, Jr. endorsed me. It was incredible and we've done so well with the evangelicals. I mean, Christians, evangelicals, we've done so well.In fact, in South Carolina, when we went to South Carolina, that was going to be Cruz's territory. He was going take it, except we won it in a landslide.You know that. You saw it. He was there. This guy follows me around, I'll tell you.But you were there. Remember, he was going to win that in a landslide. And then I started speaking. I started talking to people, and I started saying the good and the bad and the ugly.And we won in a landslide and we won the evangelicals. I've won just about I think almost every place I've won with evangelicals.And it's been an amazing time.So now I'm here to talk to the people of Wisconsin. I have friends in Wisconsin. I've been here before. It's an incredible place but it's a place that has problems.But you have a governor that has you convinced that it doesn't have a problem.I remember when he was on the campaign trail, I was so nice to him. I said, "How can I hit him? I'm not going to hit him. I'm not going to hit him."And I was so nice. I hit Jeb instead, right? Right?And I hit Rand, Rand, old Rand.And I hit a lot of people and they all went down.Wouldn't it be nice to have a president that could just with his mouth make things happen that are positive? You know.But it's not with the mouth. It's really with the mouth, the heart, and the brain. Remember the brain.I have a lot of friends. They're good with the mouth but they're not good with the brain. It all doesn't work. OK?You know, we had an interesting thing today. A poll came out -- a nationwide poll. A great poll. It was Trump 48%. It was an NBC poll. Trump 48%. Cruz was second in the 20s, mid-20s something. And Kasich was way down.So what happened is they showed the poll. It was an NBC poll. They call it an NBC monkey poll. And it was on the Today Show, and it was on Morning Joe. Morning Joe held it up and he said, "Wow, those are great numbers."48% is pretty good. You have three people. You know. I don't get enough credit for that.I've been at 42%, 44%, 45%, and I've had like seven people. How do you get 45% when you have seven people? Nobody says that. They say, "He hasn't cracked 50%." How do you crack 50% when you have all these people running?So I'm at 48%. Poll was good -- way, way ahead of anybody else nationwide. And they showed Hillary Clinton -- hers is very close.She's got a little problem. Could happen. Got a bigger problem with the emails than she has with Bernie to be honest with you. She should have. Her bigger problem should be with emails. We'll find out how honest our country is, right?But she's got a sort of close race. And they put her poll up and it was put up there. You know, big letters.And then they said, "And Donald Trump is winning." That was it. They didn't put numbers up. They didn't say I'm doing great. In fact, they said, "Donald Trump is winning," and they put some -- a little slightly negative statistic in -- it was like wait a minute. They put her numbers up and they didn't put my numbers up.Folks, it's so unfair. The press is so dishonest. It's unbelievable. That was Chuck Todd. That was Chuck Todd this morning on the Today Show.They put Hillary's numbers. And I'm winning by a lot and they said, "Donald Trump is winning. You know, let's go to a new subject, OK?"Now, I guarantee you one thing. If I was losing or doing poorly, it'll still be up. It'll be up all morning because they don't like what's happening. I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm putting up my own money. They don't like it.Ted Cruz and Kasich are getting money from the banking industries, the energy industries. They're getting money from the pharmaceutical companies. They're getting money from everybody.Folks, you can't straighten out this mess -- we're in a mess -- if you can't do what you have to do.When millions of dollars are given to Cruz and Kasich and millions from different industries, you're not going to be able to say, "Well, we're going to do and go against the banking industry to do what's right for the people" if the banking industry gave you millions of dollars. Now, that's true with Hillary also. Now, she's gotten millions of dollars.But I'm the only one self-funding my campaign. I'm in for a lot of money. I in a lot of money.What is beautiful is when I was running against Jeb in New Hampshire. I was in for like $2 million. Jeb was in for like $48 million. I was in first and he was close to last.I said, "Who do you want as your president?"By the way, did Jeb endorse anybody yet? Because I haven't heard. Because I think Jeb probably endorsed -- huh? Did he endorse? It just shows you how important it is. Nobody even knows. I don't even know.He'll probably -- he'll endorse -- just so you know. Look, when you're in war, you've got to fight and you fight hard.When I fight, I win. You're going to win. You know that. You're going to win.But you know, you do pretty serious damage, right? Because you want to win and you want to win fast and a lot of people don't love you after you finish.But I just love you. I don't care about that.In fact, they're asking Cruz, you know, at the debate which by the way they said I won every single debate. Now I heard the other night, "I want to debate Trump". I've debated him 11 or 12 times. Every single online poll has me winning the debates. He's an OK debater but he's a bad talker. You know, everything's so dramatic.And he waits. Phony. And he waits. You know, you ever see he goes sentence after sentence and then he stops for like three, four seconds. And then he goes again. It looks like we're in the theater. We're not in the theater. We're in the real world.So what happens -- thank you.... By the way, the Sheriff is here and he's a great guy and his people are fantastic. Thank you, Sheriff. Thank you.I mean, the only thing I feel so guilty about all the people outside. Feel so guilty. We're going to come back. We're going to come back, come back to this area. You guys cannot come. OK? All of the ladies can come but the guys can't.But all of the people outside, we're going to take a bigger place because I feel slightly guilty.But look, we have a very serious mess on our hands. We have a very serious situation.We have a country that's not protected.We have a country that's sitting on a big fat bubble that's going to explode. In a certain way, I'd say let it do now, don't do it after I get in. Three days it'll explode and they'll say it's Trump's fault. OK?Ayeyeye, we are in a big fat ugly bubble. We have interest rates that are so low that if you're rich like me I can borrow money for any amount. If you're a hardworking guy with a great farm or you're a hardworking developer or businessman you can't borrow money.You can only borrow money really cheaply -- think of how bad it is -- you can borrow money for nothing practically if you're rich. But if you're rich, you don't need the money so you don't have to borrow it.But if you're a businessperson and you want to go to the bank for a loan, you can't get it.The regulators are running the banks. Dodd-Frank is a disaster, by the way. It's a disaster. It's a disaster.But the biggest disasters are regulations. Our rules and regulations are horrible. We're going to get rid of probably 85% of them. There are some we live with. But we've got to go back.So many people in this area have told me regulations -- regulatory climate -- is the worst they've ever seen.I have a friend, who's a farmer, and if a puddle forms, they consider it a lake for the purposes of environmental. It's like a puddle and they'd consider it a lake.So we don't know what we're doing. So here's what's happening. We're going to make our country so great again. We're going to make our country so strong again.Our military is going to be so amazing. We're never going to have to use it.Don't forget, I didn't want to go into Iraq. All these guys think that I'm a tough guy so I'm going to be so quick with the trigger. I'm not going to be quick.I was the slowest with the trigger. I didn't want the trigger.Now, when Obama left though, he shouldn't have left the way he did. He gave a certain date, and the enemy said, "It can't be possible. Nobody would be that stupid. Nobody."So I actually don't think it'd hurt that much because I don't think the enemy would ever believe that anybody would be stupid enough to give a date -- "We're leaving on this date." And then he left. They said, "He was serious!" They pulled back. They pulled back. Then you see what happened. They pulled back then they went in with fury.But how about the 50 soldiers. He sent a couple of months ago, a few months ago, he sent 50 of our finest and instead of just sending them quietly, quietly sending them. What does he do? He sends them in and he makes a big press conference or announcement that "We are sending 50 soldiers in Iraq, Syria" and these soldiers have a big target on their backs.Why can't we just keep our mouths shut? Why can't we be unpredictable? Unpredictable? Right? Why can't we be unpredictable?Why does he have to tell -- first of all, it doesn't even sound good when you say "50 soldiers" because it sounds like so small. People would say, "Is that good or bad?" I mean, that sounds small.But then when you think about it, why do we have to say that?These are extraordinary people. These are our finest. And they're, you know, very dangerous missions. Why would you tell people that we're sending them in? You just keep quiet and let them accomplish something.They are right now -- who knows what's happened to them? But right now, they have a big target on their back.People that we've let go of at Gitmo have now killed Americans. You've seen that. You saw that yesterday. That came out yesterday. We let people go out of Gitmo and they kill Americans. OK. Is anybody surprised at that though? Would anybody be surprised?And we're keeping it open. Now they're spending, you know, hundreds of millions to run it. I guarantee you could run it a lot cheaper. You'd have a lot of money left over.So we're going to get efficiency in government. But we're going to end Obamacare. We're going to replace it with something so much better and so much less expensive.We're going to get rid of Common Core. We're going to bring our education local.We are going to preserve our Second Amendment. It's under siege. It's totally under siege.And Christianity is under siege. I'll tell you, Christianity is under siege.You take a look. I'm with the -- I'll tell you what. I've been with so many pastors lately and Jerry Falwell Jr. was an example -- was telling me that -- first of all, he told me something that "You remind me so much of my father." I thought his father was a great guy. What his father did with Liberty College and Liberty University. And Jerry to top it off has taken it to a whole new place.But when Jerry was so strong and so great.But I was talking to -- I probably had 50 of the ministers and pastors, different folks came up to my office, and they're really under tremendous pressure because they don't want to have their tax exempt status taken away. This happened during the Lyndon Johnson presidency.And I said, "Why is it that you folks are pushed around so much?" Christianity. These are the pastors. These are strong people. These are really strong people. "Why do you allow that? Why aren't you more forceful?"And finally, somebody said, "Well, we have to be a little careful of our tax exempt status."I said when did that happen exactly? It was during the Johnson.Well, we're going to try to get rid of that. OK? Because that's really terrible.We're going to try getting rid of -- and I've said that to a lot of evangelicals, a lot of great Christians. We're going to try to get rid of it because it sort of means somebody walking down the street has more power than somebody of religion, of our religion, of Christianity, somebody that's an evangelical.You take anybody they have more power because these people are powerless.They've actually taken their right of free speech away.So I said we're going to try to get rid of that and I think we'll be very, very successful.You know, it's interesting. I said how many Christians are there? Because you know, we've got men, we've got women. You cut it in half, we've actually have a few more women. But we are far more Christians than we have men or women. So in a way, it's the most powerful lobbyist -- the biggest group of people.But they're not allowed to talk because they're petrified.You saw what was happening with the IRS and what was taking place with regard to certain groups.So we are going to try and usually when I say try that means I'm going to get it done. That means I'm going to get it done.But we are going to try very hard. We are going to get that brought back and I think it's going to be very hard to counter it.Because if the Christians, and if the whole evangelical Christian sector gets together, nobody, nobody can beat --You know, when I made the statement about banning Muslims on a temporary basis, I took such heat.Now people are saying, "You know, Trump is sort of right about that." Now they're all going, "Wow" because they see what's happening.And I think if I would have said it about Christians, I think I would have had less opposition. That's what's happened in this country. That's what's happened in our country.And we can't let it happen. We're going to turn this country around and we're going to be the smart people. We're not going to be the dummies anymore.We're not going to be where China made last year trade deficits $505 billion. Japan over $100 billion. Mexico $58 billion.We're going to build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall. OK?... Recently, I was in Florida and Marco, who's a nice guy actually. You notice how nice they are after you've defeated them?I like everybody I defeat.But when I ran against Marco, it was supposed to be... well, he started it. Right? Just like Cruz started the last deal. He started it.But Marco came after me very viciously. You know he wanted to be Don Rickles, right? And it didn't work.But what happened is I won by 20 points -- almost 20 points -- and a lot of these issue we were talking about it was big issues. And frankly, I wish I would have left about two days earlier. I wanted to stay in Florida campaign. I wish I would have devoted two more days to Ohio because I almost won in Ohio. I would have won in Ohio but I didn't want to take a chance leaving my beautiful Florida because I love Florida and I wanted to win that.So if I would have left a couple of days early, I think I would have won Florida the same.But I'm not going to have anything happen in Wisconsin. We have to win.If we -- look, we have to put these politicians in their place, folks. It's time.And believe me, you know, Cruz likes to pretend he's an outsider and in the meantime he gets all the establishment support, including your governor.So believe me, believe me, they're all establishment.And frankly in a way it's worse because Cruz is establishment and yet he's got no relationship with the establishment.He goes and he stands on the floor of the Senate for a day and a half and he filibusters, and these Senators -- look, I know. They're tough cookies. I have the best -- I have one of the great people -- Sen. Jeff Sessions, who's great.Nobody better than Jeff.And you know, Cruz thought he was going to have him and used him in his speech -- "Sen. Jeff Sessions" -- and then he comes out and he endorses me.But when you think of it, look, out of all of these Senators, he has one supporter -- Lee -- who's his friend. I mean, he's his friend. And by the way took him plenty time to do it.But you know, to stand there and to rant and rave for two days to show people you can filibuster, in the meantime, nothing was accomplished.Cruz has not accomplished one thing.So he's an insider but it's almost like the man on the street because he can't get anything done.He dislikes people. He calls people like for instance he said horrible things about the Speaker and you know about the Speaker and he said about separately Mitch McConnell.I mean, he said some terrible things about -- how do you get things done when you're calling Mitch McConnell bad names. OK? Let's just say bad names.So he's sort of got the worst of all elements. He's an insider totally but he can get nothing done. OK? He can get nothing done.Your new Speaker -- how do you like Paul Ryan? How do you like him?Wow. I was told be nice to Paul Ryan because -- really?Well, he's the Speaker. He's a nice guy. He called me the other day. He was very nice.But I'm very surprised at this statement. Wow. Are you all Republicans? Are you mostly conservatives?... I always say I'm just a common sense conservative. And so, so important -- common sense.And somebody told me today that somebody else -- I think, Walker -- used my term.You know, Walker used -- I said, "Make America great again." I said, "Make America great again", and I copyrighted the term.And then Walker was making a speech many months ago when he first started and he was saying "Make America great again" because he saw the response that I got. The difference is he didn't get any response. So then no.But we told him he can't do that. That was the first real problem I had with him...Now, I said a common sense conservative and today I heard he used the term because the press was up and they interviewed me and they said he said he's a common sense conservative.Well, I coined the phrase a few months ago. That's what I am. I am a conservative.I'm very, very conservative on the military. I'm very conservative with our vets and on health care and on lots of things.But -- and I'm actually very conservative on trade but a lot of people would say "He's not that conservative on trade because he doesn't believe in free trade." Well, actually I do believe in free trade. But it's got to be good trade for us, right? It's got to be smart trade.It can't be where Wisconsin is losing thousands and thousands of jobs where you folks can't get into China but China comes in here like it's Swiss cheese. That's what happens.You know, China does not obey the rules.Now, I get along great with China. I made a fortune dealing with China. I have two buildings because of China. Big ones in New York and one in San Francisco -- Bank of America -- that I have in partnership with a great company. And it's because of China. I sell -- I have one of the big leases with one of their big banks -- with the biggest bank in the world actually from China.I sell millions of millions of condos to people from China. I like China.I'm not angry China. I like them. I think their leaders are doing a great job for them.But our leaders are doing a bad job for us.Same with Mexico. I get along great. The Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. I love the Hispanics. But their leaders are killing us on the border and they're killing us on trade.And I'm not angry at them. I'm angry at our country and our leadership because it's grossly incompetent and we're going to change it around and we're going to get the best and we're going to get the finest.... So whatever you can do to spread the world, I'll be around. I'm going to Green Bay. I love their team, by the way. You talk about a great franchise. No, I love it.And you have a truly great quarterback. I don't know. He's probably endorsing somebody else but I don't care. He's still a great quarterback.Tom Brady's a friend of mine. He said you have a great quarterback. That's all right with me. When Tom says he's a great quarterback that's pretty good.But you know, I really want to win Wisconsin because if we could win Wisconsin, we're going to put all of this stupidity away.We're going to put these stupid, stupid people that allow and I'm talking about basically politicians, and in many cases, you know a lot of times people will see deals that are done and I mean take a look at the Iran deal. How bad is that I mean, just as a deal...But many times people will say deals that the country makes, and they'll say, "How can our politicians be so stupid?" They're not stupid. They're being hit by the lobbyists and the special interests and they make a fortune. OK? They get tremendous campaign contributions. They're not stupid. They're doing it for themselves.So again, I'm not doing that. I'm doing for you. I'm working for you.But just remember, they're not so stupid like you think.But when you look at the people funding Cruz's campaign and Kasich's campaign, and you look -- don't forget -- Cruz said, "Oh the banks, the banks." You know, he's going to be Robin Hood. He's going to be this great guy.And then in her personal financial disclosure form, he forgot to mention that he borrowed about a million dollars from the banks -- Citibank and Goldman Sachs. He borrowed a million dollars at an interest rate that everybody in this room would be proud to have -- a very low interest rate. Almost no interest. He forgot to announce it on his personal financial disclosure form. He just forgot. He said, "Oh, I forgot. I forgot."OK? So then he hits the banks. He's controlled by these people, folks. OK? I mean, what he did was absolutely wrong. But they're controlled by these people.I'm controlled by you. I'm going to do the right thing for you. OK? So remember that.22 veterans a day commit suicide. That's correct.We're going to take care of our veterans so much. Look, let me tell you, they -- many of them kill themselves waiting for a doctor. They can't even get to see the doctor. You know that. They end up killing themselves before they see the doctor.22 a day and a lot of people don't even believe that number. They think it's almost like an impossible number -- how can it be so bad? -- and it actually could be even worse than that.We are going to take care of them. From their standpoint, they wait, they wait, then they get bad service, then they wait some more -- six, seven, eight days.And sometimes they'll see the doctor and the doctor says, "I can't see you now. I'm going on vacation."You see the corruptness.I just left Phoenix -- 21,000 people. Sheriff Joe was there. The job he did was incredible. Incredible.You know they had a little protest. Right? That protest ended so quickly. He arrested three people; everyone else scattered.You know, and you have that kind of a Sheriff here. You have a tough cookie here. I can tell you. I just met him and I can tell you.But you know I have a great policy plan and I've gotten a lot of credit for it and it's on DonaldJTrump.com. And with the veterans when they're waiting for exorbitant time -- even for a little time -- they're going to go to the doctor. They're going to go to local doctors or local hospitals.Many of the hospitals are dying for business. You know that they're dying. Some of these hospitals are dying. They're going to get immediate treatment, immediate service, we're going to pay the bills, and we're going to save a fortune, and they're going to get great service.And everybody is in love with it. Everybody loves it. And that's what's going to happen. So we're going to take care of our veterans.If we can't take care of our veterans, we can't take care of anyone. So we're going to take care of our vets.Boy, do you look good though. You look good and tough. I wouldn't want to fight you.Do you think I can take you in a fight? I don't think so.How about we do it right now? That would be great for television...Go ahead.... Let me tell you this. Our veterans are taken worse care of than illegal immigrants who come in our country... You don't even have to write it down. We're going to do things about it.You know what you're saying? I've heard this so many times before with the daycare and everything else. We are going to take care of our vets.By the ways, speaking of increase, Cruz and Kasich want to destroy your Social Security, folks, OK?I want to bring money back into this country. I want to bring jobs into this country. I want to bring tremendous wealth into this country. I want to take our wealth back from China, from Mexico, from all of these countries that have our wealth. They've taken them like we're a bunch of babies.And we're going to save your Social Security and we're going to save your Medicare. They want to get rid of it. OK? Remember that.I want to use not too many executive orders folks. You know, because executive orders came about more recently. Nobody ever heard of an executive order.Then all of a sudden Obama, because he couldn't get anybody to agree with him and he start signing them like they're butter.So I want to do away with executive orders for the most part.But look, just do me a favor. Stick with me. You're going to be OK. All right?... I know, what you've said I've heard a hundred times and daycare is a huge problem. Huge problem. And your wife not working? Huge problem -- she can't. So anyway, I bet you have a great wife. Good wife? Better believe it.... We're ending Common Core. You're not going to be educated -- your kids in Wisconsin are no longer going to be educated in Washington, D.C. by bureaucrats -- many of whom -- I can't say all -- but many of whom don't care for your kids. They couldn't care less. They get big, fat salaries. Your kids are going to be educated locally.We're terminating Common Core, and you will see something that's magic. And I've seen it where parents and all of these people -- the uncles, the aunts -- they're all on the school boards. They get professionals. They have great principals.You can't see what's going on from Washington, D.C. Many of the people never even come here. They sit behind their desk in Washington. They draw big salaries. And they're telling you how to educate their kids. Not going to happen that way.And I've even seen it where they keep graduates -- the child graduates and those parents stay on. They love it because their child went through the system. They love it and they become so good at it. That's what's going to happen.We're one of the worst in the world in education. We're going to be one of the better ones. Not necessarily -- you know, I don't know that we're going to beat Sweden, Norway, Denmark, and China. But we're going to come very close.Discipline in schools. I don't think that Wisconsin should have a big problem with discipline. You have a big problem with discipline?... Well, we have to get discipline back in the country, forget about school. We have to get discipline --I mean, I have a case. I have a wonderful guy -- campaign manager. You talk about discipline. And you probably saw what happened today with my campaign manager. He's a good guy. Corey (Lewandowski).And by the way, the easiest thing -- "Corey, you're fired." I can't do that. Can't do it.So fortunately, I have a taping system. You know, very -- I'm rich so I have tapes all over.So this young woman who complained, was all -- she was talking about being maybe thrown to the floor and all this. I said, "Oh, that's horrible." And then we saw the tapes.Did anybody see the tape? What did you think? Right? Nothing.Women -- what did you think? (Audience response inaudible)...I mean, she wasn't like -- her face stayed the same.If somebody squeezed your arm or did something really bad -- don't forget -- initially she said thrown to the floor. But if somebody squeezed your arm or hurt you, wouldn't you start screaming or something?Did you see any change in her face? (Audience response inaudible)... It's horrible. It's horrible. Honestly, it's horrible.And the best thing I could do is say -- but I can't destroy a man. I'd destroy him. Got a beautiful wife and children and I'm not going to destroy a man for that.And you know what? When I saw that at the tape, at first I said, "Oh, this is terrible." Then I saw the tape. It's my tape. I'm the one that had the tape. It's on the ceiling of this incredible club in Jupiter, Florida, and we're all leaving and we have a press conference. Right?And the press conference lasted a long time. It was like 45 minutes. So that was enough.I'm leaving with a whole big gang of people. People pushing left and right, left and right.And all of a sudden, she bolts into the picture. She grabs me or hits me on the arm. In fact, I'm like this with my arm up and then he goes by and maybe he touched her a little bit. But I didn't -- it was almost like he was trying to keep her off me. Right?Like he was helping her. And did you see her fall to the ground?OK, because she talked about falling to -- now after, I must tell you, her statement changed big league because she said go to the ground. You know, all this. I could read it to you. Does anybody want to hear it?I mean, I want to be accurate because I'd like the press to treat me.So before she knew she was on tape, she said "I was jolted backwards."Was she jolted backwards? I mean, if she was, her face stayed the same. I mean."I was jolted backwards. Someone grabbed me tightly by the arm and yanked me me down. Campaign managers aren't supposed to forcefully throw reporters to the ground, except she never went to the ground. She never even came -- flinched.She didn't -- you know, if somebody grabbed you even one of the guys, even the bikers, if somebody grabs even a biker or punches you a little bit, you're "Whoa!" Right? I mean, the toughest guy, the toughest woman. Look at her face. It's zero.They're going to destroy a man's life?And then I have Cruz saying, "Oh, that was a terrible thing. That was a terrible thing."Let me tell you something, folks. If I win, if I lose, I didn't need to do this. I'm doing this because I just had a beautiful grandchild with Ivanka. Ivanka and Jared -- beautiful, beautiful grandchild. It's my eighth. I'm doing this all for them.I didn't need to do this. This is not so easy. And I had no idea. You know, maybe none of us did. You know, I had no idea the message was going to get across. It's a message of competence. It really is. It's a message of common sense and it's a message of competence.And I had no idea that we'd have millions of more votes than we had when we had that stiff Mitt Romney -- a total stiff -- who by the way he's a dope. He's not a smart person. I'll tell you right now.Let me tell you about Mitt Romney. That was an election he should have won and he lost. And he should just go away and let the big boys do it now because you know what? That's an election that should have been won.And I'll tell you what. I helped John McCain and at that time, honestly, that was a tough deal for him because the world was sort of collapsing. But he lost.And I helped Mitt Romney a lot and he lost. And I said, "This time, we're going to do it ourselves. We're going to win. We're going to win." So just remember that.We're going to win because of Wisconsin, I hope...Right! She's so smart. I don't want them to know. I don't want to tell Putin what I'm thinking. She's so smart.What you just said... what about Ukraine? Don't worry about Ukraine. Ukraine is going to be fine. Just don't ask me why.You know, this world of politics -- "Mr. Trump, you said -" don't forget I'm the one that said take the oil. I was right. They didn't take the oil. You know who has the oil right now? ISIS has the oil.You know, that Libya -- ISIS has all that oil from Gaddafi, all of that big oil from Gaddafi. He took it. We're like a bunch of dummies.Why aren't we embargoing? Why aren't we creating a nice big circle so they can't get the oil out? Why aren't we taking that oil back?Look, look, look, I'm the one that says though I don't want to say everything.If I win, I have a good chance of winning. I'm the frontrunner by a lot. I want to go in there. I want to knock the hell out of ISIS. I don't want to tell all. I really mean this.I don't want to tell everybody in this room -- and look at all the cameras that are going now -- I don't want to tell the world what I'm going to do because they're watching.Just let me do it folks. I will do it. You would be so happy. You don't have to know the details. OK? Let me do it.You know, I used the word before. We have to be a little bit unpredictable. We can't say, "Well, we're going and attack on March 14th and then we're going to hit them from the front and then we're going to hit them from the back."You know, Obama did that eight months ago with one of the cities. He said, "We're going in next week."Look, folks, folks, folks, you know, you have to trust -- there has to be some trust. Right? Do you trust?We've got to stop the stupid. That's why I really think your question is so great -- "I don't want to hear how you're going to do it, Mr. Trump. Just do it." I'll do it. OK?I love that. That woman! That woman! Thank you, honey. Thank you.OK. I can see why.I remember that. I remember that. Such a wonderful, beautiful woman. I mean, just an amazing woman.And are you coming along OK?That's great. And you know what we'll do? We're going to watch him. You're going to watch him. We're going to be watching your boy. OK? But you're going to be hopefully around. You're not going to have to have anybody watching. You're going to hopefully be around. Those doctors are going to be so wrong. But we'll be helping you.That's so nice. Thank you.I have to go down and say hello. Is that OK?... Very sad but I think it's going to be really a story of hope and something that is really great is going to happen out of that. You watch.But it sort of tells me when I first said this people would say, "Oh, it will cost a lot." Forgetting about the campaign. That's peanuts by comparison. You know, I've spent tens of millions of dollars.But the big thing -- I lost certain businesses and I owned the Miss Universe Pageant. I bought it very inexpensively many years ago -- 15 years ago -- and because of the fact that they thought I was against this woman or that one, I had a hard time with television.Now, the good news is I sold it for a wonderful -- I was very happy with that. But I didn't want to sell it. But I sold it and I built it to really a great company. We did a great job with that company -- Miss Universe, Miss USA, Miss Teen USA.But other businesses -- I sort of -- like the shirts and the ties with Macy's. Macy's was unbelievably disloyal because of illegal immigration and they ended the shirts, ties. Who care? I mean, that's not a big deal.But I'm doing something -- nobody is giving up what I'm giving.I mean, when Cruz runs, he runs. If he wins, great. If he loses, great. You know, it's him. He's a politician. They just -- they run, they win, they lose, who knows?But these guys run for office. That's all they do.I've always heard that if you're a very successful person, you can't run for office, especially for president. You just can't run for president, and I can see it. I have so much false press about me. Things that are so false.You know, I saw the other day on television, there were like 56,000 negative ads on me. 56,000.In fact, in Florida, I own Doral and in Florida we had the tournament there two weeks. Adam Scott -- the great Adam Scott -- the great golfer. He was winning. And in between shots, I told you this after the victory speech, in between they have commercials and they were all about Trump. Negative, horrible, negative commercials. Mostly false. Mostly. Not all false. But mostly false, I have to be honest.But it came out the other day, I think it said "$68 million, 55,000 negative ads." Negative ads.And when I was running in Florida, I said "How is it possible to win?" I mean, with all of this because I knew it. You couldn't turn on in Florida where I was you couldn't turn on the television without seeing Trump commercials. Sometimes four or five in a row. And they were horrendous. Done by very, very bad people. Very bad, evil people.And I said, "How it is possible to win?"And God helped me. Honestly. Because I won in a landslide. I won by almost 20%.And now they're doing it here. Club for Growth. It's a crooked outfit.Look, Club for Growth -- you ever hear this? Club for Growth -- a friend of mine, he's a conservative guy. He goes would you do me a favor? See Club for Growth. I said, "What's Club for Growth?" He said, "They want to talk to you." I said, "All right. Send them up." He's a friend. He's a good guy. And now I'm in politics so I have to see people I wouldn't normally...So Club for Growth, they come up to my office. This guy was I think a former Congressman. And he tells me a little bit about Club for Growth and I'm falling asleep. And then he goes, "$1 million." And I said, "$1 million for what? I don't even know you. I've never met you." I said, "Do me a favor." I'm trying to be nice and I said, "Go back and write me a little note if you can." And he was stupid enough to write me a note.He writes me a letter asking for $1 million. I let him know that I'm not interested. You could be rich. I'd rather take a million and throw it all over this room. I'd rather give it to you, to your boy.... They write me a letter. It's like extortion. They asked me for a $1 million. I said no nicely. And then they're doing ads all over Wisconsin. Club for Growth. They did it all over Florida. Club for Growth. About eminent domain.By the way, without eminent domain, you wouldn't have highways, you wouldn't have hospitals, you wouldn't have bridges. You need eminent domain. If something's in your way and you're building a highway, if you're producing 7,000 jobs and you need a little corner of someone's property, every once in a while.You know, it's funny. These guys all want the Keystone Pipeline. Right? Everyone. Conservatives. Conservatives want the Keystone Pipeline. I like the Keystone Pipeline too. But they have a whole big thing on eminent domain in their prospectus because without eminent domain, they wouldn't go 15 feet. They wouldn't be able to build it.So, they don't want eminent domain. They do commercials about eminent domain. They love the Keystone Pipeline, and the whole Keystone Pipeline is based around eminent domain because you've got to go from Canada, where Cruz was born, to Texas, where he's representing. Think of it.This guy -- and don't forget that. Remember what I said. I'm going to win. Just remember what I said. I'm going to win. And I thank you...I'm going to win. But remember this. If for some reason he does, he gets the nomination, the first thing -- remember, I'm a good prognosticator, I'm a good predictor -- the first thing that's going to happen is the Democrats are going to sue Ted Cruz. He was born in Canada. He lived there for four years. The head of the Harvard Law School, one of the top people in the business in terms of Constitution, is saying that, you know, he's wrong. And we have a bunch of other people that are much stronger than even that.Remember this. If Cruz gets lucky and wins, and the only way he can get lucky is if he doesn't get -- because it's all establishment. You know, if I go into that whole mess of the convention, I'm not the establishment. I don't take their money. I don't hire their people. I don't do any of that stuff. OK? So you have a disadvantage.But if Cruz wins, remember what I said. Just remember. Again, he's not going to win. But if he does, he gets the nomination, within the first few days he will be sued by the Democrats that he doesn't have the right to be president. And I think they're right because he wasn't born on our soil. He wasn't born. He's not a natural born citizen. He's not a natural born citizen.I don't like to make a big deal of this but it was just brought up by somebody. He is not a natural born citizen. So if for some reason he should get the nomination, I really believe you're wasting your time and boy do we have a problem because you're going to have somebody that's going to be sued, probably will lose the lawsuit.Again, he was born there, lived there for four years, mother was there, the whole thing for a long period of time, and he was a Canadian citizen joint with U.S. until 14 or 15 months ago. Did anyone know that? So he was a senator from Texas, only because of the great Sarah Palin by the way, without Sarah Palin, he could have never won that election. It was a fluke. But he was a Senator from Texas. He lived -- he was a joint citizen. Now, he finally gave up his citizenship to Canada like 16 months ago. He said, "Oh, I didn't know I was a citizen of Canada also." Just like he didn't know that Goldman Sachs and Citibank gave him money. I mean, this guy is -- you just have to study him, folks.Look, again, I'm doing this. We're going to win. We're going to turn this country around. We're going to make America great again. We're going to win a lot. But you have to know the facts.I love you all. I love you all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Get out there and vote! Thank you!... We did this as a quickie. We wanted to come into this area. We're staying here tonight.And I know you have a baseball game, you have a big basketball game. We're going to go really quickly tonight.But we're going to say one thing: We're going to make America great again. Remember that. Make America great again because that's what matters.So, I brought somebody very, very special along. I wonder who that could be? I wonder.And she's an incredible woman. She's an incredible mother. She loves her son Barron so much. And just really something special. And I have to say she will make an unbelievable First Lady.So I'd like to introduce my wife, Melania. Thank you.So beautiful. She said, "Do you mind? I wrote something -- coming out, I wrote something. Do you mind if I said it?" I said, "Not at all. Should I read it?" She said, "I don't want you to read it. I don't want you to read it."Thank you very much. I want to thank Melania for that. That was very special.You know, Wisconsin's a really special place, and we've been all over today. Speeches all over. We had one before. Thousands and thousands of people standing outside of an airplane hangar because the hangar was packed. And we had another one in the morning, and it's been an amazing day, and some phenomenal results.You see what's happening with the polls. Boom! Like a rocket ship. It's like a rocket.I guess I just heard when I walked in one just came out that we're 10 points up. But don't worry about that. Pretend you didn't hear that. Go out and vote tomorrow. OK? Go out and vote tomorrow.You know, I always tell -- I used to say this to politicians that run that'd be friends of mine, I'd say, "Pretend you're a little bit behind. OK? That way you'd work hard. You'd never forget."But you know, there's somebody that was -- I saw just a little while ago in the audience a very special woman, an incredible woman, and Melania just said hello and met her was so taken, and she represented you so beautifully. And some of you know who she is. Many of you know who she is.But she was Miss Wisconsin. She has one of the most incredible spirits that I've ever seen. She's got her husband and her son and her son is absolutely magnificent and she loves him more than anything that you can imagine.And she's going through a very hard time. And she has been so supportive and so like just incredible of what we're all -- what we're trying to do. Not me. I'm a messenger. What we're trying to do -- make America great again and bring it back and stop letting the world take advantage of us both militarily and we don't win anymore.We don't win anymore. We don't win with trade. We don't win with the military.We pay for everybody else's military.We don't know what we're doing.And she saw it and she was here early. And she knows that we're going to take care of our people, and it's going to be America First. It's got to be America First. We have no choice. We have no choice.And she's with a friend of hers who's very well-known, Chelsea Cooley, who is a tremendous, tremendous woman and just an amazing person. Also a great singer but I won't even mention that because Chelsea would be the last to want to have people know that. Chelsea is such a great friend of Melissa Young and Melissa Young -- I just want to bring her and Chelsea onto the stage and maybe Melissa would like to say something and Chelsea. But this is just an unbelievable woman.So could I ask Melissa to come up on stage please?I'll tell you that's an amazing and just an incredible story and we're going to make sure that it goes as well as it can.She was so amazing the way she walked up here and just spoke from the heart, and we all have to speak from the heart.And you noticed no teleprompters? We don't have teleprompters. We want to do it right from here and from here and from here.But I just want to -- I saw Melissa, and I said, "I have to have you up" because her story's an amazing story and it's a story of courage and we're going to work with her family and we're going to make sure everything goes well.OK, thank you all very much.So, in coming over today and in going through a few of them, I said to a few of the folks I've got to explain what's happening because our country is being decimated by stupidity, by bad deals, by horrible trades, by TPP, which Cruz wants badly and which is going to destroy Wisconsin.This Transpacific Partnership is a disaster. Cruz is pushing it hard.Kasich, I don't think he's a player here. I mean, the guy is one in 32. He's one and it was in his own state. And if I would have campaigned there two more days instead of staying in Florida, I would have won in my opinion Ohio. He's one and 32.Now, in all fairness, Jeb Bush was doing a lot better than that. Many people were doing better. It's called you get out. He's taking my votes. We have to get over 50%. And how do you do that?Look, at a certain point in life, what you do is you say, "I'm one in 32. In other words, I've won one out of 32 states," and you do what Marco did, which was great, and you do what Rand Paul did, and you do what a lot of them did, and you get out.And by the way, if you want, you could put your name up and you say "I want to run" and you go to the convention and you run.But it would be nice to see -- because I'll tell you what, he takes my votes away much more than he does Cruz. And I don't like it. I don't think it's right. I don't think it's appropriate.But you know what? If we have to live with him, we still beat him easily. OK, folks? I mean, OK?But Kasich voted for NAFTA. NAFTA was a disaster for Wisconsin and it was a disaster for our country.Ted Cruz wants TPP and it is going to make NAFTA look like peanuts. What they're doing to us with those documents, and Cruz is the one that insisted that we can't talk about money manipulation, which is devaluation of currencies in the agreement. He wouldn't let them do it. He's the one that fought currency devaluation. That's the single biggest tool that other countries have for taking our business, taking our money, and taking our jobs. And we can't let this go on any longer.Now, they're controlled by their PACs. They're controlled by the people that put up their campaign contributions. They're controlled, you know, with the lobbyists in Washington. They have signs on their forehead. It's like stamped into their forehead -- "I take care of Cruz." They're specialists. "I take care of Kasich." "I take care of Hillary."Oh, Hillary. Ayeyeye. "Take care of Hillary."So we can't let it happen anymore. We can't let it happen anymore.It's time -- you know Obama used to say, "Time for change"? I'll say it's time for change but real change this time not that change. Real change.Obama yesterday -- President Obama yesterday for the first time he started having reservations about the Iran deal. I could have told him that six months ago, nine months ago, long before it was signed. The ink isn't even dry and now he's finally starting to understand it was a big beautiful mistake and it's only going to get worse.And by the way, Iran is getting worse. They were supposed to come into the community. Remember? What a bunch of babies. Are we babies? Are we babies? Hello over there.They were supposed to come into the community and they were supposed to, you know, get involved.Now, you see they just ordered 118 Airbus jets. Those are the big jets. 100. They didn't order Boeing.The reason -- one of the reasons is we restrict them from spending. So we give them $150 billion and they're not even allowed to give us money by investing, by buying our products. OK? How crazy are we? How much longer is it going to last? When are we going to get smart? When are we going to stop?We as a country are being ripped off. We are being ripped off by virtually every single country in the world. OK? Whether it's militarily or trade.We don't win anymore. We can't win with the military. We can't beat ISIS.Can you imagine Gen. MacArthur or Gen. George Patton? They say get rid of ISIS. What do you think?... It's so sad to see what's happening to our country and we're going to turn it around and we're going to change it. And we're going to make it rich again, and we're going to make it strong again.So, and so many different elements, and I've been talking about trade. I always talk about trade.Because when I announced on June 16th coming down the escalator with Melania, it was like the Academy Awards. There were so many cameras; I've never seen anything like it. So many cameras. And I took a deep breadth and I said, "Let's go." Because we have to do it.You know, it takes guts. Running for president, believe me, takes guts. It takes a lot of guts. Believe me.And even for the politicians they run at least they're out on the line, and then you see the dishonesty. You see where I won Louisiana and then I find out that I'm not supposed to get as many delegates as the person that I beat. What kind of stuff is that?And somebody said, "Well, there's a rule and another rule." I don't care about rules, folks. I go out and I campaign. We win. We win. We get the delegates. Right?But in the meantime, we have millions more votes than Cruz. We've beaten him in most of the states. I mean, we're just winning so much. And we're winning by almost 300 delegates.So we're doing great. And I think we close it out before the convention. I think we actually close it out before the convention.And that's like a prizefighter. You know, they go into unfriendly territory, and the champ, he goes in. And they say, "What do you think? You may have an unfriendly decision." He says, "No, when you knock them out, there's no unfriendly decision."If we get the delegates, we've pulled out a knock-out. And that's the way it's going to be, and I can see that happening because more and more people are calling, they want to get on board.Frankly, when I looked at what happened -- a friend of mine, who's a great -- you know, one of my great friends, he lives right down -- not very far from here. And he said, "With Wisconsin, you're going win." I said, "Well, what do you think? But I'm not seeing polls that are great. I'm a little bit down. I'm down in some. I'm a little bit down." He says, "No, no, you're going to win. But you have to be there. You have to come in and you have to talk to the people." Like we did this afternoon at the hangar. And he said, "You're going to win. I mean, you're going to win." He's a very smart guy, I want to tell you. Great guy. But he said, "You've got to come in."We've been making -- I've been making speeches, three today, four yesterday, three or four the other day. We're here constantly. You're going to get so sick of me. You're going to say, "Oh, get him the hell out of here."No, we are making so much progress and it's been so inspiring to see the people. I mean, look at even you people. You don't sit down. If you want, you can. Oh, stay up. Stand up. What the heck? Hey, we've got plenty of time to sit down, right? We've got plenty of time.But I do appreciate that. That's a sign of affection, and it's a sign of respect, and I really do appreciate it. That's really nice.So we have to bring our country back and so many different things.With China, we have a trade deficit of $500 billion a year.With Mexico, we will build a wall. We will have strong borders. Strong borders. Believe me. We have a trade deficit of $58 billion a year. The wall's going to cost $10 billion to build. And people, the politicians are saying, "How can you possibly get them to pay?"Let me tell you something, folks. We have some good business people in this audience.When you have a $58 billion deficit, and you have a $10 billion wall, that's real easy. And that's on a yearly basis the $58 billion. It's really easy.And they don't understand it. They said, "How are you going to get them to pay?"I said, "It's so easy." And you understand it. Just rely on me. OK? Rely. So easy. That's so easy. And we're going to have a strong border.You know, two days ago I was greatly honored because the Border Patrol, the folks that do a great job, and they're told to stand back but they don't want to stand back. They want to do their job properly. They're proud people. They're incredible people. Frankly, before the wall goes up, we might not even need the wall, but we're building it anyway. OK? We're building it. Believe me.But the Border Patrol people are unbelievable people, and its 15,500 people gave me an endorsement two days ago. And I didn't ask for it. I didn't know.First time, first time they've ever done it. Right? First time, they've ever done it and they gave me an endorsement. And it's so important.Now, Sheriff Joe (Arpaio) from Arizona. You know, I won Arizona very big, and Sheriff Joe was with me and it was incredible and we love it.Look, we have to have strong borders. We can't let the Syrians come in that we have no idea who they are, where they're coming from. We don't know if they're Syrians.This could be the all-time great Trojan horse. Who knows?I have as big a heart as anybody. We want to help them. We want to build safe zones in Syria.I want to get the Gulf States to pay for it. The Gulf States have nothing but money. We don't have money. We will run it. We will do a good job. We'll get it done but let somebody else pay for it for a change. We can't do it.... I keep getting these requests. You know, Al Green -- the great Al Green wrote "The Snake". How many people have heard "The Snake"? How many people? Oh, do you want to hear "The Snake"? Do you want to hear it? I mean, people love it and I love it because it says what's going to happen to us if we're not careful.And this really pertains to allowing people into our country that we know are going -- we're going to have problems. We're going to have huge problems. Allowing people in from areas of the world we don't know where they come from. We don't know where their documents are. They say they don't have documents. They have no papers. No nothing. We let them in. How stupid can we be?So this is called "The Snake" and I think it's pretty good. All right? Are you ready for this? A couple of you have heard it but some of you haven't."On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. 'Oh well,' she cried, 'I'll take you in, and I'll take care of you.' 'Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,' cried the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk and then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken in had been revived. 'Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,' sighed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom. 'You're so beautiful,' she cried. 'But if I hadn't brought you in by now, heaven's sake you might have died.' Now she stroke his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. 'Take me in, oh tender woman. Take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh tender woman,' sighed the very, very healthy snake. 'I saved you,' cried the woman, 'And you bit me. Heaven's why? You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die.' 'Oh shut up, silly woman,' said the reptile with a grin. 'You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.'"Right?That's what's happening to our country, folks. That's what's happening to our country and we can't let it happen. We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant. We have to be strong. And if we're not, we're not going to have a country.And we need borders and we're going to have borders.And we need great trade deals and we're going to make great trade deals.And we can't let Mexico and I have great respect for Mexico and I respect their leaders but we can't let Mexico and China and any country you want to name steal our business, steal our jobs.When you look at what's happening in Wisconsin -- and you see it -- the reason I beat your governor and I beat him badly was I just read off the statistics. I just read -- all I did, I stood up and I read statistics. You're losing jobs... It's very average. It's very average.Our country is less than average. OK? Our country is doing so badly. And it's just one of those things and we have to smarten up and we have to get really tough. We have to get so, so, so vigilant and not be so politically correct. We have to do what's right for our country.When the great Ford Motor Company -- great company -- when they build a $2.5 billion plant in Mexico, when Nabisco moves its massive plant to Mexico from Chicago, we can't let it happen.When Carrier Air Conditioners, as you know, they just announced they're moving to Mexico.Pfizer is moving to Ireland.But let me just tell you. So, I watched the politicians and they have no business instincts. But more importantly, they're taken care of. You know, a lot of friends come up to me and they say, "Donald, let me ask you a question. These politicians -- are they really that dumb?" I said, "No, they're not actually that dumb. Some are. But they're not actually that dumb. They're all taken care of by the special interests. And when you want something done, you see certain people in Washington."Hey, who is better than me? I mean, take a look at me. I was before June 16th, I was a part of the establishment and they will do not what's right for you but they will do what's right for the company they represent or the country they represent and the United States continues to get ripped off, ripped off, ripped off.And a lot of times, I'll say, "How can a deal be so stupidly made? These people are so stupid." They're not stupid. They're doing it for themselves. They're doing it because they want campaign contributions. They're doing it because they want money put in their PACs. They are totally controlled by the money. Believe me. They are totally controlled by the money, and that's not good for our country. OK? That's not good because terrible things are happening and we're getting weaker and weaker.Hundreds of thousands and even millions of jobs are being taken out.You look at the jobs we have. Even in Wisconsin, I mean, you see the jobs, the manufacturing, it's all so down and so gloomy and throughout the United States. And it's a disaster what's going on in our country. We're not going to have jobs left.And they do it with manipulation of currency. And they do it with guile. They do it with so many different elements that our people don't even know what's happening.Our politicians in most cases don't even know what's happening. And when they do know what's happening and they let it happen, it's even worse.So I'm not taking money from anybody. I'm self-funding my campaign.And we're going to get it. We're going to get it.Now, I look at this U.S. manufacturing -- I mean, just look at this. Look at these charts. I mean, you can see them... This is where we're going.You know that's not good. Right? This is where we're going.There was one that I just saw. Just got this. It's like incredible.Look at this. This is U.S. manufacturing jobs rapidly decline since year 2000. Look at that chart. Another couple of years, there won't be any jobs.And the jobs we have now are bad jobs. These are bad jobs. These aren't good jobs. And everybody admits that. Even the other side says, "We agree. They're bad jobs."And the number that they talk about when they say 5% unemployment -- it's a fictitious number. When you stop looking for a job, you're considered statistically employed.It was a number that was made up years ago probably by president but certainly by politicians to make them look good, to make them look really good like the economy.The economy is not good. The economy is bad.We're sitting on a bubble. The banks have money. They give it to you for nothing if you're rich. If you're not rich, that's when you need the money, they don't loan it to you. So the people can't do jobs.Probably here you have some great companies, some really good smaller companies, you can't get the banks to give you money. The banks are controlled by the regulators. They system that this country is run under is out of control.And we're going to change it. We're going to bring back the jobs. We're going to bring back our companies.And you know I've had such a response. And the reason I've had response is because of that and then I look at the ads today.I'm in hotel and I look at the ads and Cruz makes up these ads. "We're going to bring back jobs" -- he's using my same language.Here's the problem. They don't know where to begin. They don't know where to begin.And if they did, Lyin' Ted, lyin', he comes up. Did you ever see a guy like this? Just look what he did with Ben Carson.Ben Carson, who endorsed me by the way, is a great guy, and Lyin' Ted, remember in Iowa, he said "Ben has left the race. He's left the race." This was on election day. It's not like two days before or the day after. "During the election, he left the race." OK? And people believed him and thousands of votes were cast not for Ben but for Ted Cruz. It's pure deception. It's lying.And then there were many other things. And actually during one of the debates, Marco Rubio looked over and he said, "You're a liar." And I said, "You know, I never heard a politician call another politician liar so we can do it." So we now call him Lyin' Ted -- Lyin'. It's crazy. It's crazy.I mean, what he does and what he says is just terrible. And you know, I've met a lot tougher people but I've never met any human that lied as much as him.And he comes in and you noticed the tremendous evangelical support I have? I have Jerry Falwell Jr. from Liberty University. I have all of these people. I have such incredible support.And the evangelicals -- he thought he was going to get the evangelicals but they don't like liars and they see he lies so much.Do you ever see him -- he walks up and he walks in with the Bible, held high. Right? Held high and then he starts to lie.Boy, he is bad.So anyways, I don't think that you're going to fall for that. I really don't think that anybody is going to fall -- he doesn't talk. He debates... I said, "Ted, take it easy. Just talk. Talk. Talk."But we're doing really well. The whole thing is just working out. And I loved being here. You know, I've been here for a long time. I've been here for a long time. I'm going here -- we're going to stay tomorrow. We're going to have some, I think I'm doing Fox and Friends tomorrow morning. I'm doing some shows tomorrow. We're going to do some shows and we're going to be around and we're going to make sure -- we want to bring this home.If we can -- you know, we have a movement going on, folks. And it's a movement of intelligence, actually. It's a movement of common sense. That's all it is.We're not going to let Carrier make air conditioners, fire all of its people, move to Mexico, make the air conditioners then come in and take the money out of the country. It's not going to happen anymore.And I'm a free trader. And they say, "He's not a -- " Remember Jeb Bush? "He is not a conservative." I said, "What?" I am a conservative. But you know what? I believe in free trade.But when you have free trade, you need smart people running your side of the free trade.If you don't have smart people or if you have people like Ted Cruz that are totally controlled by the people that give him the money and they're controlled by the establishment. I mean, look at the establishment.This guy in his whole life didn't know what the word establishment meant. Now you have all these people going because they said, "Oh man, Trump is terrible. He doesn't want any of our money."I had one friend that came into my office -- I don't think I've ever said this before. He came into my office. He wanted to give me millions of dollars. I said, "I can't take your money. I don't want your money. I'm self-funding." He said, "No, no, no, you've got to be kidding." He didn't even know. He thought I was kidding. He wanted to endorse me, wanted to support me. I said no, no, I don't want. Anyway, he was finally convinced that I didn't want his money and he's leaving. And I said, "By the way, what are you going to do now?" He said, "I'm going to give it to another candidate." And I said, "Why?"They're gamblers. They have to do it. It's like almost a disease. They have to do it. It's the craziest thing.He loves me. He wants to give give me probably close to $10 million. Right? I would have had the greatest Super PAC in the history if I would have taken all the money.And my whole life, you know, I've said this before, my whole life as a business person is this. Right? It's OK. Nothing wrong with it. I take. I keep taking. I take and take.But now I'm going to take for the United States. We're going to take. We're not going to be the stupid people anymore. We're not going to be the stupid people anymore. We can't be. We can't be.And with NATO when they don't pay, you know, I said -- I was asked a question by Wolf Blitzer, a very fair question about NATO.Now, you know, I've been a businessman. World class. I filed my business papers. They were phenomenal. Everybody says great, great, great. I built a great company. Very little debt. Tremendous cash flow. Some of the greatest assets in the world.And I tell you that only for one reason -- that's the thinking we need in Washington. We need some of that thinking.And Wolf Blitzer asked me a question on television. He said, "Let me just ask you about NATO." Now, I haven't been asked about NATO a lot but I understand NATO and I understand common sense, and I'm like a smart person like many of the people in this room. Hopefully all of the people in this room.But he asked me about NATO. I said, "It's obsolete." This was my first thing.And you know what? I'm the first one.Guys that study NATO and good people but they study NATO and they say, "I don't believe it. What he just said, I never thought of it." They study it because they're so into it that they don't realize because it was really put there.You had the Soviet Union and now you have Russia, which is different but Russia is powerful so we could sort of say that's a balance. So we'll leave it.But it doesn't really cover terrorism like it's supposed to. Doesn't have the right countries. I mean, many of the countries and there aren't -- that you associate with terrorism.And so I said number one, it's obsolete.I said number two, to the best of my knowledge, the United States pay far too much proportionately and why are we always paying the bills to protect other people?And the press, which is so totally dishonest, the press goes -- headlines the next day -- "Trump doesn't want NATO, wants to disband NATO". And that's not what I said.I said, you've got to pay your bills. And you know what? If you can't pay your bills, honestly, there should be -- they've got to go because we can't do it. You know, this isn't 68 years ago. This isn't when it was originally formed like many, many years ago, many decades ago, and you have to re-do things.But it is interesting. Some of the smartest people have said "What Trump said is genius. It's obsolete. And you know what? It's true." There's a lot of people, a lot of countries being given a free ride. We can't have the free rides any more, folks.... Thank you. Well, we need somebody with that... And it's America First, folks. It's America First.So then, as you know, North Korea is a big problem. North Korea is a problem. A problem that could be solved easily by China but they don't want to solve it because they want to tweak us. They're building in the South China Seas a massive military fort. You know what's going on. They shouldn't be doing that.And they're taking our money and, you know, you talk about the imbalance of trade, you talk about the kind of money. How about this? We owe China $1.7 trillion.Now, they take our money. They take our jobs... I'm not angry at China. I'm angry at our people and our leaders for letting it happen.I'm not angry with China. If you can get away with it, you do it.But they take our jobs, they take our money, they take our money. They take everything.We owe them $1.7 trillion. That's sort of like a magic act. Doesn't it? Amazing.Japan, they send cars by the millions. They come off those boats. Los Angeles -- I was there at the docks. I looked at the biggest boats you've ever seen. Biggest, greatest ships you've ever seen. The cars are pouring off the ships. We owe them $1.5 trillion.It's like, well, how does this all happen? OK? How does it happen?Here's the story, folks.We're going to change our thinking. We're going to be the smart people again. We're going to be so smart. We're going to be so sharp.So a lot of people don't know we protect Japan. Do you know that? Does anybody know? You might know... We protect Japan. We protect Germany. We protect South Korea.When you want a television set, who do you get it from? South Korea. Samsung. LG. You get it from South Korea.So we protect all and big ships they make. These are monster, monster economies. We protect them.They don't pay what they should be paying for not having to have this massive military apparatus that we supply.And you know what? We get that because we have people that don't know what they're doing in Washington for many years. I mean, I'm not even blaming it -- Obama's the worst. He's the worst. The worst.I mean, when he just realizes, I mean he just realized that the Iran deal is a bad deal. It just took him -- realize -- I said, "Oh, why didn't you listen to me two years ago?" Just two years ago if he would have listened -- can you imagine? Did you ever see a deal take so long?By the way, usually when a deal takes that long, it's bad automatically. I can usually tell you that.But anyway, so we protect Japan. So it comes out... I said, look, I would have to tell Japan and I'm talking about other nations also because I have great friends from Japan, I have great friends from South Korea. We have to go see them, go to talk to, have a meeting with them, "We love protecting you." We don't want them to arm necessarily. But you know, at some point, how long are we going to do this?So we have to see them and we have to say, "You've got to help us out."You know, we have this massive, massive amount of money that we have to get rid of because we're sitting on one of the worst bubbles you'll ever see. OK? Believe me. We've got to straighten it out.We've got to straighten out our trade deals. We've got to straighten out our military deals. We're taking care of all these countries.So we go to Japan. And here's what the... I was telling the people and they said "Wow, that sounds good." We've got to take -- you've got to take care of us.Now, they'll probably say initially "No". And then we leave and then they're going to say, "Yes."But if they don't say yes, you always have to be prepared to make a great deal to walk. You have to be...The problem with the Iran deal was that Secretary Kerry was like an amateur. Call him amateur night. He refused to walk. They were laughing at him in the streets of Iran. They were claiming the deal was the greatest deal ever made before it was even made. They were saying "This deal is unbelievable." They were laughing at the Secretary of State of this country. They were laughing at the United States saying that this deal is great. And they were dancing. Remember? Burning the flag dancing?When they start dancing about a deal that I'm making, when they start burning the American flag, I'm out of there. Bye bye. Good luck.And he just kept going back.And I kept waiting. I wanted to call him. I wanted to call him. I wanted to say, "Walk." Because every single thing -- he'd say, "We would like to get this." "No!" "Oh, OK. You've got it. We would like to get that." "No!"You know, the Persians are great negotiators. It's an unbelievable deal.But just yesterday, Obama just yesterday he brought it up that he's very unhappy.I mean, think of it. Think of it. $150 billion. It's the worst deal. We didn't get our prisoners back. We should have had the prisoners back before we started negotiating. Increase the sanctions. Don't sit at the table. Say "You give our prisoners back or we're not starting." You leave. They'll say "No". You leave. And what happens? You double up the sanctions. Within 24 hours, they call you and they say, "You've got your prisoners." That could have been years ago. Right?So we have people that don't know what they're doing.Here's the story. You need Trump. You do. You need Trump. You bet... You do. I mean, you've got to have Trump.I mean, it's sort of interesting because I see when I turn on the television, I see these ads about myself by crooked people.I see these ads and they're mostly wrong. A little bit sometimes are right but they're all negative. You know. And I'm looking, I'm watching this on television -- ad after ad.In Florida, they spent $38 million on negative ads and I won it in a landslide... Does anybody read? Does anybody watch television? You know, it's not much for the advertising community when you think they spent $38 million -- a record number in Florida.They spent thousands and thousands of ads nationwide -- listen to this one -- 55,000 negative ads on me. Most of them was made up.I'll give you one good example.We have the Club for Growth, which is forget them. These are among the dumbest people that you'll ever meet.They come to my office. They want me to give them $1 million.A friend asked me, "Please see them." I said, "Who are they?" "They're Club for Growth." Whatever that means.So they come to my office. They asked me for $1 million. I say, "No, thank you." And that's it.Then they write me a letter, which I posted, asking me for $1 million. I said very nicely -- I'm not a bad person -- I said nicely "No, thank you." I mean, you can be rich but you don't have to be stupid. OK? Why am I going to give them $1 million?So, what happens is all of a sudden I see their name all over the place -- "Club for Growth" and they talk about, you know, different things -- ridiculous things. I mean, they're the worst ads.And by the way, once was a fraudulent ad because they said, "If Cruz and Kasich got together and you added the delegates" -- and they showed the delegates. Right? And you add them up -- and I'm over here with a lot. And they said -- and they add them up and they show a graph that goes much higher than mine and it's much lower than mine.They're a fraud. And what we did is we told them to stop that ad and that was a week ago. And we tweeted about it. And everybody's talking about it. And I see it last night again.They're crooked. So here's what they do. It's like a form of extortion, I guess. Right? When you think of it. They come to your office. They ask for $1 million. You don't give them $1 million. They go out. They do negative ads.These are the people -- you know, if these people about Trump -- they call it like "No Trump". What do they call that thing? They call it "Never Trump". Oh, you need Trump so badly though.I was saying if they would work, if they would have worked so hard, so diligently against President Barack Hussein Obama, they would have beaten him. They would have had great budgets. They would have had everything they wanted.But with him... I always say, "Obama is the worst negotiator I've ever seen." You look at the -- no, except with the Republicans. He gets everything he wants.I mean, you look at the omnibus budget from three months he got everything he wanted -- fund Obamacare, bring people into the country that shouldn't be here. He got everything he wanted.So he is the worst negotiator worldwide.We have Sergeant (Bowe) Bergdahl. Right? We get Bergdahl, a traitor. No, no, think of it. This is a negotiation. We get Bergdahl. And they get -- what do they get? Five of their most coveted killers that have been in jail for eight years in Gitmo, which we're not closing down by the way. OK? We're going to run it.So we get Bergdahl, a traitor, who five or six -- probably six -- people were killed going out to try and get him back. He left. He's a traitor.So we get Bergdahl, and that's what we get. And they get five people that are right now back on the battlefield or soon to be back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody in sight, including us. OK?We've got to stop it. We've got to stop it.So with Japan, I said they got to -- maybe we've got to walk. And the next day the headlines -- "Trump doesn't want to defend Japan", "Trump wants Japan to get their nukes".OK, here's the story, folks. You have Japan. Japan is very concerned with North Korea.You know, number one, I like the way it is now but I want them to pay a lot more money. They probably will. But if they don't, it's not so bad if they are at heads. Maybe we're not supposed to get into that fight. That's a bad fight. Maybe we're not supposed to. OK? OK?Same thing with South Korea. I mean, every time he raises his head and he starts talking, every single time he raises his head, our ships start floating over, our planes start going over. We do all sorts of exercise. What are we get out of this? We have 28,000 soldiers on the line.So, we have to be taken care of.Now, I'm talking as a person financially. OK? I'm also talking militarily. But I'm talking financially.We don't have a country that can do this anymore.Saudi Arabia, until the oil went down and now they're still making a fortune. But Saudi Arabia was making $1 billion a day. We protect Saudi Arabia. If we weren't there, Saudi Arabia wouldn't be there. If Saudi Arabia didn't have us for years protecting them, they would have been gone a long time ago as Saudi Arabia. Somebody else would have it, probably maybe Iraq because he would have come back.And by the way, speaking of that, you know, I was against going into Iraq. Everyone says, "Oh, Trump is going to be very tough." I was against going into Iraq from the very beginning, from the very beginning.And I'm going to build our military bigger, stronger than ever before. But you know what? Hopefully, we never have to use it. Nobody's going to tell us what to do though. We have to shape it up because our military is totally depleted.But if our politicians would have gone to the beach for the last number of years, many years, we would be much stronger in a sense. We'd be much stronger because the Middle East is a disaster. You see the great migration. It's a catastrophe.You see what's going on in Germany. It's a total mess. What she has done.Can you imagine? She was Person of the Year.I was supposed to be Person of the Year on Time Magazine. She beat me out and she destroyed Germany. Can you believe this?That's not good. I wonder if Time Magazine had that one to do over again what they'd say. I think we'll be in much better shape. Well, they've treated me nice. I've been on the cover a lot.And the reason we're on the cover a lot is because we have a movement the likes of which people have never seen.So here's the story. Here's the story.You know, one of the great writers called me up and he said, "What you've done is incredible." I said, "No, no, I have to win." He said, "No, no, it makes no difference. If you win, if you lose, it doesn't matter. What you've done is down in the history books. You will be cover for all time. It's incredible." I said, "No, sir. No, sir. I have to win. Because if I don't win, to me, I will consider it a tremendous waste of time and waste of money but a tremendous waste of time."So here's the story. Here's the story. We're going to take care of our Second Amendment. It's being chipped and chipped.We're going to get rid of Common Core. We're going to bring education back locally.We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare, which is a total catastrophe. You're going to have great health insurance.We're going to save your Social Security. We're going to save your Medicare. We are going to save it because we are going to make our country rich again. We're going to bring back our jobs. We're not going to let our jobs go. And we're going to be able to afford -- you've been paying in it a long time and a lot of these guys want it to be knocked to hell. It's not going to happen. OK? Remember that. It's not going to happen.We're going to start winning again, folks. We don't win anymore. We don't win anymore. We don't win with our military. We can't beat ISIS. We're going to win. We're going to knock the hell out of ISIS.We don't win with our vets. Our vets are being treated worse than illegal immigrants. Our vets are being treated so unfairly. They're our great people.And other people -- you know, vets have endorsed me virtually unanimously and a lot of the vets will come up to me and say, "You know, Mr. Trump, we follow closely what's going on. You're the only person that ever mentions the vets." Right?And Hillary Clinton recently said about the vets that they're being taken care of just fine. They're not being take care of fine. They're not being taken care of. She said they're being taken care of just fine.I know the vets. Nobody's spent more time with the vets that are running. And we're going to take care of our vets. OK?We are going to tear up and make great and very lucrative and everybody is going to be happy, including the other side, trade deals.I have the greatest people in the world for dealing.We use political hacks that don't know what they're doing. They're dealing against the smartest people in China, the smartest people in Japan, the smartest people from all over the world, and our negotiators are political hacks and we're not using them anymore.We're using the greatest business people in the world and we have them in this country and they're endorsing me, and I know the best ones from the not so great ones. And we're going to have great, great trade deals.We're going to have a strong border. We're going to have a real border, OK? We're going to have a wall, Mexico is paying for it, we're going to have a wall, and we're going to stop bad, bad things from happening in this country.Because if you look at what's going on and you look at the tremendous crime and you look at the drugs that are pouring across the border, the drugs are pouring like water, they're pouring across.You know, when I won -- New Hampshire is a special place to me because they were the first victory I had. And I won New Hampshire, I wasn't expected to win it, Jeb was expected to win it, and I won in a landslide.And I'd go around, I'd see the people of New Hampshire and they'd tell me, Mr. Trump, our biggest problem is heroin. And I'd say, heroin? It doesn't make sense. You know, you look at the beautiful trees and the woods and the roadways and the lakes. I said, heroin? It just doesn't work, it's incongruous, right? It doesn't work. But it was heroin.And I said, if I get in, we're going to stop that problem. And I said, where does it come from? They said it comes from the southern border, they come right in.Now, New Hampshire would rate it their number-one problem. They have a tremendous problem. But many other communities, including you, but many other communities have this problem. We're going to stop it cold, folks, we're going to stop it cold.And the bottom line is this. Look, we have a big, big day. You're going to look back on this evening and you're going to say that was one of the great evenings of your life, because we love the country, we love the country.This was one of -- I love you, too. Thank you. I really do. I love the people. I love the people.You know, they say that Donald Trump, my base is so -- they say Donald Trump can do almost anything. In fact, one person today said anything. And they interviewed a woman, I saw her last night on television, sitting in a hotel room, which was not the most beautiful room I've ever been in, but it was very clean and I only want clean, I don't care about the room, I want clean.But they were sitting there and they said to a woman, a wonderful woman, probably 55 years old, and her friends were there, and they said, what would it take to get you to vote for somebody other than Donald Trump? She said, don't pay that game, there is nothing he can do that would get me to vote against him.And I wanted to go up and I wanted to hug that television set. I wanted to -- I wish I could find out who she is.But we have so many people like that. We're all like that. I mean, a big chunk of the country is like that, because we're tired of stupidity. We're tired of seeing what's happening to our great country.So here's the deal. You're going to go home and you're going to remember this. But much more importantly, tomorrow you get everybody you can. And I promise you, you're going to be so proud of your country. You're going to go out and vote, you're going to be so proud of your president. But forget that.You're going to be so proud of this country again. And you're going to remember the evening because we're going to start winning again. We're going to win on trade. We're going to win with our military. We're going to knock out the ISIS.We're going to win. We are going to win with the military. I tell you, we're going to knock out ISIS, we're going to knock them out. We're going to win for our vets because our vets have been treated too badly. That's not going to happen anymore.We're going to win at the border. We're going to win with education. We're going to win with our Second Amendment. So many people talk to me about the Second Amendment.We're going to win at every single element of what we're doing. And every single thing we're going to win, win, win. And you're going to say that was the single-greatest vote that I have ever cast. And you're going to look back and you're going to be proud of yourselves and you're going to be proud of your country again.So thank you very much, everybody. This is a great, great honor. Thank you.Get out and vote. I love you all. Thank you. Thank you very much.Thank you. Thank you.Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Unbelievable! Unbelievable! Thank you so much. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. First of all, it's great to be home. This is home. It's great to be home. We love New York and we are all together going to make America great again, folks.So I was driving over from Manhattan, and I passed queens. I love Queens. Do we have a lot of Queens? I grew up in Queens. I grew up in Queens. And I used to play, you know, I used to get here at like 2:00 in the morning to play a round of golf at Bethpage. You all know what I mean, right? But I love this city and I love this country, and we are going to start winning again with our country because we don't win. We never win. We never, ever win anymore. We don't win with our military. We don't win on trade. We don't win on health care. We don't win on anything. We are going to start winning again, folks.So in coming up, I said to myself and I said some of the people when we were in the car -- I said, you know, I'm self-funding my campaign. I'm putting my own money in, right? And all these people that are running for office, they're like off the throat, they take money in from all the special interest where they can't make proper transactions for you and that's going to stop. It's going to stop. You look -- you look -- you look at what's happening -- I love you too. I love these people. These are my people.I have so many family members here today. Look at that. Boy, oh, boy, my sons and my daughter. Did Ivanka do a good job? You know she had a baby like five days ago, so she did a good job. So I should not say, Ivanka, you're fired, right? I promise. I promise. I promise. So, I love this. You know, somebody else would say that's a tough crowd. It is for the heart. We love this crowd. We love you people. We love you people. We love. So, here's what we're doing. On June 16th, I came out and I said -- and it's not easy to do. It take guts. I came down the escalator with Melania. I said, come on, let's go. I took a deep breath. And it was all about trade. It was all about borders, it was all about all sorts of things. And today it's that, but it's also about our military. We can't beat ISIS. We're going to knock the hell out of ISIS. Believe me.Can you imagine what our great generals, General George Patton, General Douglas MacArthur, can you imagine what they'd be saying if they saw what's going on with what we're doing and the way we fight? We don't fight like people from Long Island. We don't fight like people from New York. So we're going to rebuild our military. It's totally depleted. You know it. We know it. They don't like talking about it. We are going to rebuild our military. It's going to be bigger and better and stronger than ever before, and nobody is going to mess with us. Nobody. And very, very important we're going to take care of our vets. Our vets are not taken care of.So our country owes now $19 trillion.We owe trillions to China. We owe trillions to Japan. The whole thing is absolutely ridiculous. It's going to change around. It's going to change quickly. We are going to renegotiate our trade deals in China. The case of China, $500 billion trade deficit every single year. It's going to end. Mexico. I love the Mexican people. I love Hispanics. I love Hispanics. They're unbelievable people.We have now $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico, and our businesses are sadly leaving our country going to other countries. They're leaving our jobs. In Long Island, you know it better than almost anybody. Our companies are being uprooted, taken out, they're moving to Mexico. They're moving to other countries. Everybody is looking for jobs. And you know what? We're going to end the practice. We're going to keep our companies here, and we're bringing companies back to the United States.(CROWD CHANTING BUILD A WALL, BUILD A WALL, BUILD A WALL, BUILD A WALL, BUILD A WALL, BUILD A WALL!)We are going to have a strong border. We are going to build the wall. It will be a real wall, a real wall. Are you ready? Are you ready? Are you ready? Who is going to pay for the wall?Who?By the way, 100 percent. When these politicians come up, they say you can't really get Mexico to pay. I just put out a plan three days ago so easy. When we're losing $58 billion a year in trade deficits and a wall is going to cost $10 billion, folks, how easy is that? It's going to happen, OK? It's going to happen. One hundred percent it's going to happen.(CROWD CHANTING BUILD A WALL, BUILD A WALL!)Go ahead.It never changes. Hey, New York is called New York --It never, ever will change. So what's happened and very strongly what's happened? We are going to have those strong borders just as you saw last week. The border patrol, 16,500 people in the border patrol endorsed -- and I didn't even ask -- endorsed Donald Trump for president.The first time they've ever done it. They have never endorsed anybody for president, but they want to have strong borders. And you know what? I thought to myself has anybody heard the snake. Has anyone heard of it? Have you heard? Should we do it? Should we do it?All right. The main thing -- can you hear me all the way in the back? Can you hear me? Can anybody not hear me clearly? All right. I want to thank my brother, my cousins, my nephews, my beautiful daughters- in-law, my son, wonderful Ivanka as you know. They all came to see this, I mean, they can't even believe it. You know, you know, Lyin' Ted Cruz came today. He couldn't draw 100 people. A hundred people.He couldn't. I'm telling you. In fact, it was a big headline today in "The New York Post." He couldn't draw 100 people. Now, do you remember -- do you remember -- do you remember during the debate, when he started lecturing me on New York values, like we're no good, like we're no good. And I started talking to him about the World Trade Center, the bravery, the incredible bravery of everybody, our police, our firemen, our everybody.Better believe it. Better believe it. So, I looked at him and started talking about our incredible police, our incredible firefighters, our incredible people, our unbelievable construction workers. Who could have done that? Who could have rebuilt that hole? There was never anything like it in this country, the worst attack in the history of the United States. The bravery that was shown was incredible. We all lived through it. We all know people that died. And I have got this guy standing over there looking at me, talking about New York values with scorn in his face, with hatred, with hatred of New York. So, folks, I think you can forget about him. You can forget about him.He is Lyin' Ted. You know, I came up with the idea. But you have to spell it right. It's L-Y-I-N', Lyin' Ted. The Bible held high, he put it down, and then he lies. You know the wonderful thing? He lies like crazy. But most of the time, I win the evangelical vote. The evangelicals, the Christians like Donald Trump. I am a straight shooter. I shoot straight, like New Yorkers. We shoot straight. You have another one running, he was in favor of NAFTA. Do you remember that?Kasich. Kasich. He is now -- he is now zero for 32, except he won his state. So, he's like one for 33. And he just -- he won't leave. And that's OK. You know what? He is a nice guy. Let him keep going. It's OK. It's all right. It's all right.But both of them -- and this is so serious. Both of them, we have a deal under negotiation, being negotiated by President Obama, which you immediately know it's going to be a bad deal. A bad deal. Don't forget, Obama negotiated the Iran deal, one of the worst deals ever, ever, ever negotiated.So what we have -- what -- thank you, darling. I love -- screaming "Love. I love you Trump, I love you, Trump." Thank you. Thank you. I love you. I love you. I do. I do.So, both of them want TPP, which is Transpacific Partnership. It is a disastrous deal. It is going to suck the blood out of New York. It is going to suck the blood out of our country. Both of them want it to happen. I'm going to fight it and we're going to stop it. We're not going to let it happen. We have enough bad deals. This deal would be catastrophic.So, look, let me just tell you a couple of things. So we have to bring our jobs back to this country. We have to stop making horrible trade deals. We have the greatest businesspeople in the world in the United States. I know many of them. I know the good ones, the bad ones. The overrated ones, I know, and the underrated ones, people you have never heard of, who are phenomenal.So I've called a lot of shots. And I've gotten credit, pretty much, for calling a lot of shots. I have an instinct, and I do have a good instinct for it. And we have a thing called the migration. Now we have illegal immigrants pouring into our country. We don't know what's happening. That'll stop. But we have the migration. We have people coming in by the thousands with no documentation, with no parperwork. We don't know where they come from. We don't know who they are. You watch what happens. It could be ISIS. I hope not. But you watch what happens. You see what happened in Paris. You see what happened in California.So here's a story. You think of this in terms of the people coming into the country especially coming in from Syria. We don't know where they are, we don't know who they are, we don't know how they're getting in. They're all over the place. Believe me. It's going to be a problem. You think of this, all right? This is called the snake. On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tenderhearted woman saw a poor half frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Well, she cried, I'll take you in, and I'll take care of you. Take me in, oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven sake. Take me in tender woman. Beside the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk and then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night as soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken in finally, finally had been revived. Take me in oh, tender woman. Take me in for heaven sake. Take me in oh, tender woman beside the broken snake.Now she clutched him to her bosom. You're so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now, heavens you might have died. Now she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in oh, tender woman. Take me in for tender sake. Take me in oh, tender woman sigh the broken snake.I save you, cried the woman and you bit me heaven's why. You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die. Oh, shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You damn well knew I was a snake before you took me in.Thank you very much. Wow, a great crowd huh? Just beautiful, thank you. So nice, so nice.We are going to bring back your coal industry your steel industry. We're bringing it back. Remember that, we're bringing it back, folks.So I know Pittsburgh, have a lot of friends -- Big Ben is a friend of mine, Big Ben, do we love Big Ben? A lot of friends, and I will tell you this -- I asked when I came over, I said, "Give me some stats on how Pittsburgh's doing." And it's no different really than the country. The country is doing lowsy, we're losing our jobs. They're moving to other countries. They're moving to Mexico. They're moving all over the place. They fire their people, they make their product, they send it in here -- no tax, no nothing. Give me a break, OK? It's not gonna happen.There are few places in America that have been more devastated economically by our trade policies than Pittsburgh. We know that. We know what's happened. Don't worry, we're bringing it all back. Don't worry about it, OK? Don't worry.And we love the place. You know -- just so you understand -- I went to school in this state. We know that, right? So, I know, I know a lot about Pennsylvania and it's great. How's Joe Paterno, we gonna bring that back? How about that whole deal?So he wants the Transpacific, you know, the Transpacific Partnership, which is a big rip-off -- that'll be another NAFTA deal that'll be disastrous for our country. And he made it impossible for us to negotiate their single greatest weapon against us, which is currency devaluation. He wouldn't let it happen, and it's no good to start off with. But without currency devaluation and their big league, it's a disaster. It'll take so many jobs from this country, from this area. We're not gonna let it happen.This is the town of the Pittsburgh Steelers, which we love, we do love the Pittsburgh Steelers. And you're gonna have a good season coming up. We've gotta keep Ben good and healthy. You're gonna have a good season. It's Steel City, and when I'm president, guess what? Steel is coming back to Pittsburgh and a lot of other things are coming back. So that's the way it is.Are you ready? And who's gonna pay for the wall?But so many, unbelievable, Jerry Falwell Jr.'s been so incredible. Liberty University. Jerry Falwell Jr.'s been has so incredible, and when I win with the evangelicals so often, I go to South Carolina and they said, "Well, that's a Cruz stronghold." I don't think he has any strongholds. Lyin' Ted. Lyin' Ted. (audience chants "Lyin' Ted")Yeah, no, the evangelicals do not like liars. You know I say, he walks in with the Bible held high, he walks in, it's Lyin' Ted, Bible held high, puts it down and then he starts to lie. Remember what he did with Ben Carson, who endorsed me? A great guy, great guy. And he goes to Iowa during the election, election day, and he said, "Ben Carson is out of the race" -- this is people who are voting -- "So vote for Lyin' Ted." And they all believed him. And then right after the election was over, he called Ben to apologize. This is what we have representing us.And you know what our country does about it? Do we do blockades? Do we blow the hell out of it? Do we do it? No, they're making a fortune. They have some of the finest oil in the world. Nice and high, highest quality. ISIS has it. What do we do? Nothing. They do whatever they want. Remember I said, "Keep the oil?" Remember? "Keep the oil. Don't go into Iraq." I was always against it. They went in, destabilized the Middle East, then Obama gives a certain date when we're gonna go out, takes everybody out -- that's when you should've kept some there -- but I always said, "Keep the oil. Keep the oil." We didn't do it. We didn't do it. So we left.Bad judgment, she's got bad, bad judgment. I'll tell you what, if Hillary Clinton becomes president -- and we'll beat her, and we'll beat her easily -- if Hillary Clinton becomes president and Ted Cruz can't beat her, first of all, I have a chance of winning New York. You win New York, you have a whole different (Trump: inaudible word) -- nobody else can do that. And the numbers are incredible. If you look at New York, I think I had a 43 point lead. 43 points. And, you know, everybody knows my relationship to Pennsylvania, and I've been here. I used to play Cobbs Creek -- does anyone know where Cobbs Creek is? Cobbs Creek? I used to play it, believe me. But everyone really knows my relationship to Pennsylvania and it's a special relationship, and we're gonna keep it going.But here's what we have to be careful of. In Colorado right now they're picketing and going wild because the bosses and the establishment and the people that shouldn't have this power took all of the power away from the voters. So the voters never got to vote, and the voters didn't know that except when I got up and complained because they did it after I joined the race, and they figured I'd probably win Colorado. Which I would, I would win Colorado. Like my polls here, and I'll explain that. So in Colorado, they're all delegates. And we had delegates that go in, they don't take them, and then they take these others so they get the delegates without voting, the people don't vote. Here's what's happening here. So we vote, and whoever wins gets 17 delegates. But whoever doesn't win can get like 35 or whatever the difference is between. So think of it, you beat somebody badly with the people, because it's a rigged system, folks. The Republican system is a rigged system and so is Democrats' system by the way.But you can't let the bosses take it away so I would, let's say I win the state because we're up by like 20 points -- a lot -- the polls just came out, and we're up by a lot. And you see these crowds, same thing with Sean Hannity for tonight. They had this theater, it was packed. He said, "I've never seen anything like it."We've gotta take care of our great veterans. Our veterans are not being taken properly care of and we're gonna take care of them.So I only say to you, you gotta go out and vote. We're gonna make this so incredible. You're gonna be so happy. You gotta go out and vote, and when you vote remember this evening. But you gotta go out and vote, and for those of you that are trying to be delegates, and a lot of times they're rejected. And I'm not blaming Pennsylvania. I'm not blaming anything. I'm just saying the system is a corrupt system. It's a rigged system. We gotta change it.You know what, if I just accomplish that, where you can the people that you vote for -- I have millions of more votes than Cruz. You know, if you add up the different primaries, millions and millions more than Kasich -- he's only got one state. I mean, John, who voted for NAFTA, by the way. Anybody votes for NAFTA, it's a problem. But John, we have 32 states right now that we went through the process.So John's one for 32, and that's his state. And had I campaigned there for two more days, you know what happened? I was winning Florida -- it was Florida and Ohio. And I had to win Florida. That was a big one. And I campaigned, and what happened is they came out with a poll that I thought was a dirty poll. You know what a dirty poll is? It's a phony poll. It was done by NBC, Wall Street Journal, and I was leading by 14 points, 15 points, 18 points. I'm doing great, and then all of a sudden right before, a couple of days before, they came out with this phony poll. Wall Street Journal, remember, NBC. And I said to myself, "Wow." I was only up like 6 points. I said, "Oh!" And they had a story: "Trump is imploding! It's over, Trump is a disaster!" This, and I'm saying, "Oh no, I'm gonna lose the state of Florida. I can't believe it. I was just up almost 20 points."They said, "What's the difference between them and politicians?" I said, "Well, one is" -- and I'm not talking about every politician, just most of them -- "politicians are much more dishonest." OK? And that doesn't mean that the business guys are honest. The business people are much tougher. They're much, much tougher. But the politicians are much more dishonest, much more deceit, many more lies. And it's a big difference, to be honest.But the business people are much tougher. The tough ones, the top, you take the top, and they're much, much tougher. But we're gonna use those good ones. I know the best in the world. And right now we have political hacks negotiating the biggest deals in the world, which is trade deals. They're bigger than any deal you can make with companies. These are countries making deals with us, and just ripping us. They're ripping us apart.And that's why when I come to Pittsburgh, when I go to upstate New York, no matter where I go I look at these -- and you know I ask for this work from every place I go. I say, "Do me a favor. Give me a little chart of how the community is doing."You know, I have to tell you, I sort of get a kick out of it, so we've won a lot of states that I wasn't supposed to win. Like we won the entire South, you know, a little thing like we won the South -- Alabama, Arkansas -- so many, everything. And Cruz, Lyin' Ted, was supposed to win. So we had a little mishap because of the dishonesty of the system in Colorado. And The New York Times writes an article today, like, you know, negative. And I said, "Well, why don't they mention all the states that I won?" They don't do that. They don't talk about that. They never talk about positive. If people call me like, like, for instance, "We wanna talk about a certain deal 14 years ago, the deal didn't work." I said, "What about all these deals that worked out so great? You know, I built a fortune." "Uh, we're not interested in them. We wanna talk about something." And I'll say, "But wait a minute, that's been written about 97 times, and actually a lot of times by the time you really rejigger it, it turns out to be successful.You know a really good businessman, when the economy crashes and you're in the middle of a big job, maybe it's a building, or a deal or a factory or something, right. The really good ones are the ones that can take a catastrophe and make it good. I've taken some deals that should be terrible and made 'em better than if the economy stayed strong. And the reason you lose it is sometimes the economy, and you know, who's going to be blamed for the economy? The politicians, maybe. But the really good ones are the ones that can take a bad condition, and you go in and you beat up the banks, and you go in, you know, the people don't like the banks, but you know, frankly, they're fine. But you go in and you have to make deals with the banks, you do sorts of things. But the beauty and the really best ones are you can take what, what should be a bad deal and make it a phenomenal deal and then sometimes make it better than if the economy had remained strong, it's really a true story.But I say, sometimes they'll call, they say, "We want to talk about a certain deal." I said, "Man, when was it?" "Well, it was 18 years ago." And I say, "What about the good deals? Do you ever want -- " "No, we're not interested in them." These are the most dishonest human beings, I'm telling you, they are the worst. So, that's a start. That's a start. That's a start. Do we agree on that folks? Terrible. Terrible human beings.I actually wanted to talk to him. I actually want to. Because, you know, when you think -- first of all, my rallies, you know, they give us the bad press, first of all, they never tell about how, look at this place, it's packed, and we set it up a few days ago. They never talk about the size, when I have 25,000, 35,000, they say, "Donald Trump had a, gave a speech today and it was fine," but that's it. I say to my wife, I come home, I say, "Did you see the size of that crowd?" Because they always put it on because I get good ratings, so it's always on, but they always show just my face. In fact, that's the one thing I like about the protester. The only thing that gets those cameras to move into the audience to show how big the crowds are is protesters, because they view it as a negative, so they move the -- You know, for years, I'm telling you, for the last year, I didn't think that cameras could move, 'cause they're always like this. Except when there's a protester in the back corner of the room. The camera, it looks like a pretzel it does so many turns, it's crazy. So, I love my protesters because it's the only way people, in fact somebody said the other night, "Man that crowd in Albany was big." I said, "Did they actually show it?" "Yeah, there was a protester in the audience and they panned to the -- " That's the only way they show it. Otherwise they never show it. We have the biggest crowds, we have the most loyal people.You know, a woman was on television three nights ago and the announcer, you know coming on with a negative question, said, "Let me ask you," because I'll tell you, honestly, I think I'm going to do fantastically with women. We're going to bring security to the country. We're going to bring. Look at the crowd, look at how many, women please raise your hand, how many? Look at this. They went, this was like three days ago, and they had this really negative wise guy announcer and they went up to these fantastic women. She was a woman, probably 50 years old, a fantastic person, she had 10 people behind her, friends of hers and she had a Trump sign and Trump buttons and they said, "What does it take to get you off Trump? So that you wouldn't support? What could he do?" She said, "Stop talking right now. There is absolutely nothing he can do to get me not to vote for him." And I said, "Aah," it's true. Now that's a fear, I agree, but that's OK. And then the women, her 10 friends behind her said, "That's right, that's right." And you know what I wanted to do, I wanted to get up and I wanted to grab that television set and just kiss it, I just love those, I love, I love our people. Our people, you know, they say, first of all, I think we have the smartest people. I think we have, and in some of these demographics, we are, we are just winning by every age group. In fact, in New York, I'm leading with women, I'm leading with high education, I'm leading with low education. I'm winning in every category. We're winning with the military, we're winning with the vets, always. We always win with the police, our police do an incredible job, OK. Our police do an incredible job.We make better products that China. The problem is China cheats. They devalue their currency. They're not supposed to do it and they do it because we have so many other problems, they get away with it. There was a period about a year ago where they had just maxed out on currency, they had just maxed out on devaluation. Then Obama gets into this big thing with Russia and this and that, so many problems. You know what China does? They give themselves the biggest devaluation in two decades, OK, 20 years. They give themselves the biggest devaluation in many, many years. You know why? 'Cause they figure, we're run by stupid people, nobody's watching. Not gonna happen anymore folks. And then the heads of China come over and we give them steak dinners, magnificent steak dinners. And they're ripping us blind. Now, just so you understand, I do a lot of business with China. I have the largest bank in the world in one of my buildings in Manhattan, they pay me rent, a lot of rent. And it's a massive bank, biggest in the world, it's from China. I sell condos from tens of millions of dollars to people from China. I have the Bank of America building in San Francisco with a great partner. It's from China, that's how I got it, from China. I've made a lot of money with China. China's great, I have no problem with China. China's wonderful, I'm not angry at the Chinese leaders, I'm angry at our leaders for being so damn stupid.So, so when we have a trade deficit with China of more than $500 billion. And we have a trade deficit with Japan that's through the roof. You gotta see these cars they come pouring off the largest ships you've ever seen. You go to Los Angeles, the docks. And I looked at cars. It looks like a NASCAR, which by the way, the owner of NASCAR, Brian France, a great guy, endorsed me. And he is a phenomenal, phenomenal. But when I see those cars, it reminds me of NASCAR, they come pouring off those boats, it looks like they're going 50 miles an hour, boom, boom, boom into our system. And you know what, you talk about trade and balance. They send us millions of cars, we send them practically nothing. And what do we get? And then we defend them and then it's all wonderful. But, we gotta get paid something. We gotta get a little, I mean, we gotta do something.Folks, we're getting ripped by everybody. We're getting ripped in NATO. And I don't want to break up NATO. You know, I said, the countries that we're giving a free ride to, 28 countries, they gotta pay up. Most of them have a lot of money, they gotta pay up. You know why they don't pay up? Because nobody asks them to pay up. So we pay for the biggest percentage of NATO, to protect them, we pay. So I said, listen, and I said it to The New York Times and I said it to The Washington Post and then they totally print it differently than what I say. I said, "They gotta pay up," I say NATO's obsolete because it doesn't cover terrorism. It was, it's 68 years old, it's time. And you know the funny thing about it, some experts that do nothing but study NATO, and I don't, you know, I don't much about NATO, but I have a lot of common sense, I mean a lot, lot, lot. Some of these experts that have been studying NATO all their lives, they said, "Huh, we never thought of that." You know what, they're so close. You ever do something where you're so close to it you don't see the forest for the trees, right? You're so close to it. They said, "Wow, Trump said it was obsc -- you know it's obsolete, we never thought of it." That's all we do all day long and they're geniuses. And then they said, "Well wait a minute, they owe us tremendous amounts of money." Well, they do. And I don't want them to pay currently. I want them to pay all of the money that they owe us for many years in the rears. They owe us a lot of money. We've been protecting them. Without them they would be a part of Russia. They would be a part of something, lots of bad things would happen. I don't mind keeping NATO together. But people have to pay up. People have to pay up.We defend Saudi Arabia, one of the richest countries in the world. So much money. Before the oil went down, now they're making a fortune. But before the oil went down, they were making $1 billion a day. We defend them. They wouldn't be there for a very long if we weren't around. Right. Every time there's a little problem, we start sending our beautiful planes, our beautiful ships, costs us a fortune. They don't pay us. Oh, that's such an easy negotiation. They have so much money. Why aren't they paying us? And I'm not talking about protection money. I'm saying they gotta pay a fair price. Because we can't continue to be the policemen of the world, defend all of these countries and continue to lose money. We can't do it. We can't do it. So I said, Japan, Japan's a phenomenal country, I have so many friends from Japan. But I said, "They have to pay us." So, The New York Times said, "Donald Trump wants Japan to arm." Because you always have to be prepared to walk. It's possible they'll say no, in which case we'll say, "Sorry, we can't do it. We can't do it." And if they arm, they arm.And frankly, you have the maniac in North Korea, we take care of South Korea too, we have 28,000 soldiers on the line. But you have the guy in North Korea, and he's probably crazy, gotta be pretty smart. You know, any guys who takes over a country like that, is that young, can't be a dummy, right? Is that right? But he takes over the cou -- now they'll say, "Donald Trump respects him." I don't respect him. I'm just saying he's probably a smart guy. I mean, who goes in and takes over a country at his young age? With all these generals that are all killers, I mean you gotta give him credit. Watch, the press will say, "Donald Trump thinks he's wonderful." I don't think he's wonderful. You know, Putin said Donald Trump is a genius, so the press said he should disavow the statement that Putin -- Donald, Putin said Donald Trump's a genius. Now, you know what, he's not gonna get me with that statement, but he said, "Donald Trump is a genius and he's gonna be a great leader," or something. The press and the guys I'm running against, wanted me to disavow the statement. I said, "I'm going to disavow a statement when somebody calls me a genius? I'm not disavowing anything."Besides that, honestly, wouldn't it be great if we actually got along with Russia? Wouldn't it be great? Is there anything wrong with that? Wouldn't it be great if we could get Russia and they've already been doing some of it, but maybe not as much as we'd like, wouldn't it be great if we could get Russia to be dropping bombs all over ISIS? I would not mind. It's very expensive. Very expensive. And then you have guys like Lindsey Graham, where he gets up and starts, "We should be doing that, Russia should not be involved, we --," I don't mind if they, you know how expensive it is, where they spend a half-a-million-dollars a bomb. In fact, they left. Now they said, "We've had --," you know why, it was probably so expensive they said, "We gotta get the hell out of here," they just left.So, here's the story. We don't win anymore. We don't win with trade. We don't win with our military. We can't beat ISIS. We don't win with anything. Our health care stinks. We don't win with anything. Folks, we're going to start winning again. We're gonna win with trade. We're going to win with our military. We're gonna take out ISIS very strongly. We're gonna win with our vets. We're going to take care of our veterans. We're going to win with education. We're getting rid of Common Core. We're gonna bring it local. We're gonna win with health care. We're gonna win with our borders. We're gonna build a wall and Mexico's gonna pay for the wall. It's gonna be there. And we're gonna start winning again, because we don't win at all. We don't win at all.You look back over the last long period of time. Where have we won? We don't win on trade. We don't win with military. We don't win with anything anymore. We're going to start winning so much that you're going to be calling me saying, "Mr. President, I was at your rally in Pittsburgh. We don't want to win anymore. It's too much. We can't take it." You know what I'm going to say? "I don't care. We're going to keep winning, because we're going to make our country so strong again."And you're gonna go out, and you're gonna vote and you're gonna remember this evening and you're gonna say it was a great evening. But more importantly, when you vote, you're gonna say that was most important vote that you ever cast at any time in your life, 'cause we're gonna bring our country back and we are going to make America great again.What's happening, we're going to stop it, folks. We're going to bring back jobs to New York state. We're going to bring them back fast, very, very fast.You know what I have been doing when I'm going around the state?And we have had big -- we were in Albany, in Rochester, in Rome, our Rome, as opposed to the other Rome, right? But -- and you look at the numbers. And what I have been doing, I have been asking people, give me some numbers. Let me see how we're doing. How are we doing up in Plattsburgh?So here's some numbers. United States industrial production, right, declined for the past seven straight months. Our GDP is like zero. If in China their GDP dips below 7, 8, 9 percent, you know what they do? It's like a major catastrophe. Ours is zero. We're down to practically nothing.Here's a strong-looking guy right there. Yes. That's OK. That's my kind of a guy. He's got the flag. He's got the whole deal. Good job. Good job. Only in America, folks, only in America. Thank you.Thank you. That's true.The number of people with a job in Plattsburgh has been -- has really -- over the last 15 years, it's really gone down. There are nearly 3,000 fewer people right now working in your community than they had in 2000. Not good. Come on, folks, what's wrong here? What's wrong?You know what's wrong. You need leadership. That's what's wrong, because you got the right people. We have got the best people. The unemployment rate in Plattsburgh right now is higher today substantially than it was just six months ago. So who left?All right. Thank you very much.You know, this started, like, 12 hours ago. We said, I have to do this because we're going over. We're doing great in Pennsylvania. We're doing great in Maryland. I was in Maryland yesterday. We had 17,000 people, a massive crowd. And they were great. What a rally. In fact, I heard somebody today say nobody -- oh, thank you. Thank you very much. Aw, that's very nice. Get him out. Get him out of here. Get him out. Oh these people, where do they come from? Where do they come from? Get him out of here, please. Right there.All right, thank you. So, this started -- this started -- yes, don't hurt him. Don't hurt him. We have to be very gentle. Got to be very gentle. All right. Where do these people come from? You know, in New York, we had some protesters and they're all paid for. But we had some protesters. And we had these people. They're nice people. They had a couple of hundred. And the press, the media, the most dishonest people in the world, the most. These are the most -- these people are probably more dishonest than Lyin' Ted Cruz. That's a lot. That's a lot.But, you know, the press went up to them and they said to one woman, young woman, why are you here? Do you like Donald Trump? Actually, I do. She's holding a sign. It was manufactured, made in China. And she's holding a sign. Do you like Donald Trump? Why are you here? And they go -- thank you. And they go, no, I do like him quite a bit. Well, why are you? Oh, I don't know.Then, they went to another one. What do you think of Donald Trump? I love him. And she's holding a sign. Trump equals hate. I'm not equal hate. I equal love. Believe me, we are going to change things around. And that's going to be good for everybody. That's going to be good for everybody.So, what happened is we're in Maryland and in Pennsylvania. We went to Delaware. We're all over. And I said, what about Rhode Island? This was yesterday. What about Rhode Island? And these professionals, who get paid a lot of money, they said, oh, no, that's OK. You're so popular up in Rhode Island. That's OK.Yes, get him out. These are just professional agitators, folks. They're put in -- it's the first time we've had it in many, many sessions. But they're put in there. They're just nothing but trouble. They're nothing but trouble. I actually -- I actually believe that they do not love our country. I'll be honest with you. I really believe that. They don't love our country.So, we said, what about Rhode Island? Oh, that's OK, Mr. Trump. You're doing so well in Rhode Island, you don't have to bother. I said, I'm bothering. Set it up. Set it up. And that was yesterday morning. And I'll tell you what. My team in Rhode Island has been so amazing. And I just want to thank everybody. The team -- the team has been -- the team has been so great and I want to thank them.Folks, folks, don't even think about it. It will be built. Don't even think about it. Don't waste your breath. It will be built, believe me. Believe me, it will be built. And it'll go up fast and it'll be big and it'll be high and strong.And it's going to help stop the drugs from pouring into Rhode Island where you have a big problem and everywhere else, including New Hampshire which was my first big victory.And one woman came up to me and said, Mr. Trump, we have a terrible, terrible heroin problem in New Hampshire. And I look and I see the -- it's like this, I look, I see the beautiful trees, the beautiful roadways, the beautiful everything, the lakes. I say, what do you mean heroin? They said, it's our single biggest problem.And then I realized it was as I got to know New Hampshire. And I said, if I win, we're going to stop this problem from poisoning our youth fast. And it's all coming from the same place, folks, OK. We're going to get it stopped. We're going to get it stopped.So I wanted to talk to you about a couple of things, and I do this and you know it's almost like I just -- we just won New York, big, big, big league. Oh, did you see the news today. Did you see where they band together, where they collude? You know it's collusion. You know, if you collude in business, if you collude in business or if you collude in the stock market, they put you in jail. But in politics, because it's a rigged system, because it's a corrupt enterprise, in politics, you're allowed to collude. So they colluded and actually I was happy because it shows how weak they are. It shows how pathetic they are.But let me tell you, and I said, it takes two long time politicians, right? Two long -- to beat -- except they're way behind. If you add up the both votes and if you add up the both delegates, they're way behind me. So it doesn't matter. But it takes two guys, long time politicians, to try and get together to try and beat Trump, and yet they're way behind. And I said to myself, that's pretty bad. That's pretty bad. And here's the key. I've only been doing this for ten months. I haven't even been doing it very long.But so I wanted to talk to you about one thing and then we'll get back to the other and we'll get back to it. But I loved it, when I heard it. I heard it last night at 11:30. I was called and they said, sir, Kasich, we call him one for 41. I thought it was 38. He's won one race in 41 states. One! OK, states and island. So I call him that. I have a new nickname for him, one for 41. Very soon it's going to be one for 46 or 47. So he's going nowhere. And he keeps talking about how he does with Hillary Clinton. He hasn't had one negative ad yet. When they put in the first negative ad about him, he's going to collapse like a rock. You -- wait until you see this, boom. Boom. You'll see. You will see.I will beat Hillary Clinton, Crooked Hillary. I will beat her so badly, so badly. And Lyin' Ted Cruz cannot beat her. He has -- he can't beat her. Hey, look, he got like no votes in New York. If you can't get any votes in New York, it's over, folks. He can't beat her. You look at his numbers in New Jersey. You look at his numbers all over the country. Lyin' Ted Cruz will lose so badly to Crooked Hillary. It will be one of the great defeats ever. And Kasich will also as soon as they start putting up the negative ads.All right, get him out. Get him out. Get him out.Is there any more -- hey, folks, folks, is there any better place to be than a Trump rally? Right? Do we love it? I love it. Are you glad I came up to Rhode Island? Yeah. And by the way, I just saw coming up, a new poll came. We're actuallyover 60. And I just found out, listen to this, listen. If we get 68, which was never meant to get because, you know, the whole system is so crazy, but if we get 68, we win everything. We win all the delegates. There's no shenanigans. And normally you wouldn't mention it, but we're so close. So if you can, you've got to get out tomorrow to vote, all right?I will not let you down, believe me. I'm self-funding my campaign. These guys are all taking their money from special interests. Let me tell you. The politicians will never do the job because they're bought and paid for, folks. Just remember it. Just remember it. They're never going to do the job. They're never going to do the job.In many cases, they're incompetent. In some cases, they're outright stupid. And in many, many cases, they're controlled. They're competent, but they're controlled by the people that give them campaign financing and probably lots of other things, OK?Now you look at Kasich, I don't think he knows what -- you know, did you see him. He has a news conference all the time when he's eating. I have never seen a human being eat in such a disgusting fashion. I'm always telling my young son Barron, I'm saying -- and always with my kids, all of them, I'd say, children, small, little bites. Small. This guy takes a pancake and he's shoving it in his mouth. He's -- it's disgusting. Do you want that for your president? I don't think so. I don't think so. It's -- honestly, it's disgusting.And then one of the things he said, you know, they make a deal. Politicians, they're no good for deals. So they make a deal at 11, 11:30 last night. The deal is done. And this morning they talk to Kasich and he goes, you know, I'm going to Indiana, we're leading in Indiana, we have tremendous support in Indiana, it's a great place. Same thing happened, by the way, jobs are being sucked out of there by Mexico and they're all moving to Mexico and other places. China is taking our business.But, you know, I look at it and I see Kasich. You know what he approved? NAFTA. He was one of the big pushers of NAFTA, which destroyed New England, destroyed Rhode Island, and destroyed big sections of our country because NAFTA was a disaster. Now he wants Transpacific Partnership, which is a group of countries that's going to do a number on our country like you've never seen before. You can't let it happen. Now, Cruz -- Cruz doesn't want to stop China from devaluing itscurrency and monetary manipulation. The single greatest tool that various countries are using to hurt the United States and our companies, OK? And if you want to let people go ahead and devalue and if you want to let people get away with that, and Cruz is the leader of the pack, he is bad for this country and he's bad for jobs and business, all right? Bad.Now, it's sort of funny. I watched Cruz this morning and he's all mixed up because he's losing so badly. And when he's under pressure, he's like a basket case. So he's stuttering and he's stammering. And I watched him. And he's saying, I want jobs and I want the economy and I want this and I want that. All stuff that I've been saying for years. And he just started saying it. He doesn't know anything about the economy. He doesn't know anything about jobs. He was a failed senator. He couldn't get anything passed. Nothing. Look at his legislation. He got nothing passed. And now he wants to be -- all he is, is a guy that will go down and stand and filibuster for a day or two and the other senators all look, when's he getting off the floor, Jim? The guy's a pain in the ass. When's he getting off the floor?So I think the fact that they colluded, I think the fact they got together, the two of these guys, number one, it shows that they are just getting killed. You know, I laugh, especially with Cruz, because, look, Kasich is going nowhere. Again, remember Kasich. You know, I have a new nickname for him, one for 41. One -- it was one for 38, but then they actually said, no, it's actually 41 states.And I would have won Ohio if I had two more days to campaign there. I came very close. Would have won Ohio, but I had to stay in Florida and I won Florida in a big, big landslide. But, you know the story. We were given a dirty poll. And I was leading Florida by a lot. And then all of the sudden, two days, I was going up to Ohio, I was going all over Ohio. Then I got a dirty poll I believe from NBC. OK, I wouldn't say that. And they were partners with "The Wall Street Journal." So who knows if it was dirty or not, but it was all -- all of a sudden I dropped from leading like 16 or 17. I went down to six. I said -- in Florida. I said, I have to stay here. I can't take a chance. This is bad.Then, we had the election. I won in a landslide. I wish I could have gone two days up to Ohio. We would of won and he would be 0-44. And what is he doing? What is he doing, really? He's just a stubborn guy. That's all he is, he's a suborn guy. He's like if you have a child who just says, I want it, mommy. I don't care, mommy! I want it, daddy. I don't care. I want it. That's all he is. Because, let me tell you something, Chris Christie -- Chris Christie, who endorsed me, was doing much better than Kasich. Think of this. Ben Carson, Dr. Ben Carson, a tremendous guy who endorsed me, was doing much better than Kasich. Marco Rubio, a very good guy, I have to tell you, he, Marco Rubio, who is -- has many more delegates right now than Kasich and he's been running a much -- he did much better than Kasich. And you had numerous other people that were doing better than Kasich or would have if they said, I'm not getting out. I don't care. I don't care.You ever see it? He's eating today stuffing it -- I never saw bites this big. He's pushing it in with his -- I never saw a guy eat like this. I told my son, he was watching, he said, daddy, look! I said, don't watch. Little bites. Little bites.And he's up there and, honestly, it showed such total weakness and it's pathetic. When two long time insider politicians, establishment guys whether you like it or not, have to collude, have to get together to try and beat a guy that really speaks what the people want. We want our jobs back. We want our military strong. We want our borders because otherwise we don't have a country. And we're going to have the wall. But we want our borders back. We want to end Common Core. We're going to end it and bring education locally. We're going to repeal and replace the horrible Obamacare, which is a disaster. We're going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege -- under siege.And that's all we want, folks. You know, no great secrets. We want to make great trade deals. We can't have trade deals with China this year has a trade -- you look at the imbalance between China, Japan, Mexico, and us. It's like we're a bunch of babies. Like we're a bunch of stupid, stupid babies. But we're not the babies. Our leadership has no clue. They don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they're doing.And it can be ended so easily. It can be ended so easily. We have trade deficit -- a trade deficit with China, $505 billion. This has been going on for years. With Mexico, $58 billion. That's why they pay for the wall. Number one, they used to say, oh, they won't build a wall. Even the guys on stage when I debated -- by the way, I've been center stage for every single debate. I've beat everybody according to the polls. According to the debate polls, I beat every single person in the debate every single debate, according to Drudge, who's a phenomenal guy, by the way, according to Drudge, according to "Time " magazine, according to Slate, according to everyone. They have like six, seven of them. Every time there's a debate. You know I think because of me, now they have a poll for everything. You know, I'm poll oriented, OK. But every single debate.Then I heard this guy, Cruz. You know, he's getting killed. He's getting killed. I mean he got so badly beaten last week and he's getting killed generally. In fact, I have to tell you, I don't think he's going to come in second anywhere. He's now in third place. But I heard Cruz say this, I want to debate Donald Trump. Donald Trump is afraid to debate me. He is afraid. You know, with the hands -- ay-yi- yi. So dramatic. So dramatic.You know the truth? I heard he was a good debater in college. And, you know what, he might be. But in college they don't interrupt you every 15 words, like I do with him, OK?But you know what he's saying: "We want to debate. Donald Trump is afraid to debate." You know the flourish and everything. And here's what happened.We do need Trump. Thank you, honey. Thank you, babe. Thank you, thank you, thank you, Rhode Island thank you. Hey now I'm glad I came up to Rhode Island, right?No, but I had a friend -- I have to tell you this stuff. Before we get back to his debate 'cause his, he's... I don't think he's a good debater, if you want to know the truth. But, but let me just tell you. So I have friends in Rhode Island. So they were calling me though. They would say "when are you coming up?" Well I don't know, I guess. You know, I have schedulers. They call it up. So I'm all over Pennsylvania. I'm all over every place -- Maryland, all over, went to Delaware, was an amazing trip, went everywhere. And he said, well, "when are you coming up?" I said I love Rhode Island. I got a couple... So I said, well we're not scheduled. This was two days ago. I said what do you mean you're not scheduled? Well it's not that big a state. I said, but it's my people. These are great people. I don't care. I don't care. I don't care.Now, Cruz was coming up. You know what happened. Cruz was coming up and he cancelled. Remember that he canceled. He was coming up two days ago. He canceled his trip to Rhode Island. So I not only didn't cancel, I said I don't care what your schedule says. I don't care... awwwww, you, look at that beautiful baby. I love to hear babies cry, a little bit. It's fine. It's good.But let me, lemme just say, I said I don't care what our schedule is. I couldn't care less. We're going to Rhode Island. So they put it in. Now I got to make two or three of these suckers. So let's see how I feel now at the end of the day. It won't be good, cuz we're going right now, Pennsylvania same thing. We have massive crowds, massive rallies, same thing. And honestly I want to thank all of those people cuz when the car drove up you people are all in here nice and comfortable. But when the car drew up there were thousands of people in the road with Trump signs that -- "we love Trump." And just get the word out. Get the word out. And I am so happy that I came. I'm so... I have so many friends up here, one of the most beautiful places on earth.But we're gonna straighten it out. We're going to bring you jobs back. We're gonna get rid of your cocaine problems and your other problem. We're gonna get rid of them. They're poisoning our youth. They're poisoning...So on the debate, I saw, I saw Cruz going I want a debate or what is it by. First of all, honestly, you know when you're like 35 points up debating never a great thing even if you do kill him in the debates right. You know, normally speaking, when you have a lead of 31 31 points which is unheard of actually you don't say oh let's debate let's debate. But I won every single debate. We debated 11 times. Every single debate. And, by the way, he wasn't even coming in second and third most of the times. So now he goes Donald Trump won't debate. Honestly folks let's not waste our time. you know what we're going to be doing and I also say this, how many times can you have the same people asking the same questions to the candidates? I mean you know at some point you getSo here's the story, here's the story. We are going to bring jobs back to this country and Rhode Island. We are going to make great trade deals. The smartest people, Carl Icahn, the greatest businesspeople, in the world have endorsed me. We use political hacks to make the biggest deals in the world. You know big trade deals are far bigger than any company. You know company deals are like little deals no matter how big they are. Trade deals are really massive deals. We use political hacks, people with political connections, people that probably sell us out because they probably have interests in companies. Cuz sometimes you wonder how could they make such bad deals they must be selling us out. They can't be that stupid. Anyway we got this smart is I know the smartest. I know the best I know the best negotiators. I know the ones that are overrated. I know the ones you never heard of that it better than all of them. But we're going to use our best people.You know when China comes in to debate, when Mexico which kills us at the border and kills us on trade, when Mexico comes in and they want to negotiate a trade deal, they're using guys that are sharp. They're using killers with a lot of street smarts. When China comes in all killers. They use killers. They use... this book and they come in waves they don't send one guy you know let's sit down and talk. You'll have 15 20 guys. So a guy makes a mistake. And then another one. They catch it. They catch it and we'll have a guy sitting there was a political hack.No more folks we're going to have the smartest in the world we're going to bring our jobs back we're not going to let devaluation happen. We're not going to let them continue to devalue their currency so that we're all a bunch of dopes. We're not going to let it happen anymore.Thank you, thank you.And I tell the story, because I'm going to Indiana right after the election tomorrow. We're going in which is a great state where I have a lot of a lot of support. I'm going to get Bobby Knight I hope. I would love to get Bobby Knight the great basketball coach from Indiana. But you know what, you know what, he's an amazing guy but you know what I'm going to Indiana they have a company in Indiana called Carrier I by Carrier recognitions I'm not buying anymore they just announced they fired 1,400 people rather viciously and they announced they're moving from Indianapolis they're moving from Indianapolis to Mexico.Now when these countries do this you know our politicians, our incompetent politicians, have been talking about this problem now for seven years seven years, exactly. They talk about it for seven years. They haven't done anything. They're talking about we have to create incentives we have to do that. By the way, I'm lowering taxes would any other candidate every was going to burn with the highest taxation but even that even that so it's not enough. So what happens is they say well we're going to give incentives. They've been talking for years. We're going to do this. Nice complicated stuff that nobody's going to understand. Nobody cares.Here's what's going to happen when a company moves out from our land they move from Rhode Island, they move from Indiana, they move from Pennsylvania which is getting hit hard really hard, the steel industry, the coal industry and by the way the coal industry in West Virginia in Pennsylvania in Ohio it's devastated. And you know who's using our coal china's using our call folks all right china we're going to open up our industries again. We're going to get rid of these ridiculous rules and regulation we want clean air we want clean water very important OK. But we're going to open up our industry. We're going to bring back our steel industry. We're getting dumped. And you know, nobody ever says it's what they say, they say well the steel will cost more. They don't say though and I always say make sure you save this make sure you say yeah the product might cost. For instance, I want Apple to build their product in the United States OK. That's going to be a big. They'll say well, of course, Morrissey yeah but will also have thousands and thousands and thousands of bored jobs so that's going to make sure you say that the median every puts the second part of the question OK they never.So, and nobody knows this stuff that is a bit. So here's what happens when Carrier moves to Mexico, when Ford moves to Mexico, when the Nabisco leaves Chicago and they move their big big monster plan to Mexico, here's what happens. We tell the folks listen if you move to Mexico we wish you a lot a luck. It's hot. it says that enjoy yourself but you know what and the mexicans are great people thousands work for me they're phenomenal people dig wait but their leaders that you smart for all leaders that's the problem because I believe in free trade but only when we have the right people.So here's what happened. There have to be consequences. We're gonna build a wall. They have to be consequence so here's what I do I tell and I'd like I want to do it myself it's so easy I love doing it I don't take vacations like Obama his whole life. The guy takes the six-month vacation twice a year. It's terrible. So here's what we do. Here's is what we do. You know he flies that big 747 to want to play around the Gulf. He flies it to Hawaii. Then he flies it back. and then he says the carbon footprint is being destroyed. I mean give me a bitSo here's the story folks here's the story. there have to be consequences when Kerry leaves Nabisco hundreds and hundreds of Ford the consequences this now ideally you do it before they build their plant and everything. But you tell them. It's fine if you leave. I just want you to know that if you leave Rhode Island, if you leave Indiana, if you leave Pennsylvania, if you leave Maryland with it being hit very hard, if you leave any of these states, Delaware gets it hard, you leave any of these, you leave any word or country that's fine. We wish you luck. Except here's the problem. Every time you build a unit whether it's a car and air conditioning unit whatever it may be that they make it they sell and you think you're going to come across our border which will now be very strong borders.By the way, 1600, think of this. Actually 16,500 Border Patrol people endorsed me two weeks ago. They've never done that before. They've never endorsed. They'd never endorse. 16,500. Sheriff Joe Arpaio from Arizona, the toughest on the border. Sheriff Joe a great guy he endorsed me now you know when Sheriff Joe endorses me you know who's the tough one of the borders. And we're not going to be we're gonna be fair we're not going to be tough we're going to be fair we're going to be smart. And we want people to come into our country but they have to come in legally. They have to come in legally. and they'll come in legally we want that OK.So here's what happens we tell these companies before they leave you can have a thirty-five percent tax every time you make a vehicle, every time you make a unit, every... And you know what's going to happen, they're going to call me. And I didn't take their money so I couldn't care less. All these other guys, Cruz and Kasich. I mean look at Kasich. casings going around begging people for monies like a beggar. He's begging. He's going around, "please could I have money." I want to continue onwards even though I'm 14 43 I think it is please please.I'm going to win because folks we're going to get it I'm not playing for the 2nd to 3rd the 4th you know you hear all this crap about delegates it's a fixed system. It's a rigged system. It's disgusting. But we're like listen to this we like the boxer he goes into unfriendly territory. The champ. I said champ, what are you doing what are you doing why you going there I said you're gonna lose if it goes too much it's not going to it but we're gonna knock them out knock out is first ballot OK we're going to go in the first half that's what we count on, so that's what we count on.So Cruz has all of these bloodsuckers going around trying to get second ballot, fourth ballot. Now honestly now OK assuming it ever did get to the second to third ballot how do you let a guy run I'm just saying you know Chris acquit the system is crooked and it's rigged. But let's just so it's not going to we're going to make it in the first ballot based on everything we see. But let's assume it goes to the second. So how do you give a guy who's millions of votes behind Trump, who's five or six hundred delegates behind Trump, because if I don't make it it's meet my like I need a tiny bit like and we'll make it. But how do you give a guy on the second third or fourth ballot the nomination, when he failed in New York where everybody laughed at him, where he can't get any votes, where he's expected to come in third in virtually every contest this... on Tuesday and some of those contests Kasich has actually given up. How do you give it to him and you can't give it to Kasich because you can't give it two guys that by that time will be 1 in 50 or something, OK. He'll be one in 15 ladies and gentlemen our new nominee is John Kasich he's 11 state out of out of 50 and he's going to be. How do you do that how do you do it how do you just. So you can't give it the Kasich. Remember he doesn't have one negative ad against them. As soon as they put the first set out he will collapse like a rock believe me just remember that. So how do you give it to these people.This is why we're on the cover of Time Magazine many many times, many many times over the last short period of time. Because they're talking about a movement, the likes of which and they say it our country has never seen before. Think of this. The Republican Party was getting very stale let's face it. Romney failed. Romney failed unfortunately. But he failed and it didn't work. And here's what's happened to the Republican Party. In the world, the Republican Party has gone from sort of staid and stale and going nowhere in terms of presidential to being the hottest party right now anywhere in the world. We're up almost seventy percent seventy percent.People, people have said... Like in Nevada, they had lines would used to be you know you look at the voting booth yet people they worked there for years and you see like two people in this massive rumor that have a get seated. In Nevada which we won also... We won South Carolina. We won the south. Cruz was supposed to win the south. He's got a bad organization but honestly he's got he's a bad messenger. I'm a much better message to believe he's got a bad messenger and he's a bad message but look remember he was going to win South Carolina. He had weak-on-the-border Nikki Haley. She's very weak on borders. And he thought that was a good thing. It turned out I had the Lieutenant Governor. That was much better and I won in a landslide. I won the evangelicals. I won women. I won every single group.Then we went we went to Nevada I won Nevada in a landslide. And by the way, the polls going out, the exit polls, they did exit polls of Hispanics. I won the Hispanic. We're gonna win than static and we're going to win the African Americans because I'm going to bring jobs back to this country we need jobs we're gonna win.Why, do you think Hillary Clinton is gonna bring jobs back. Hillary Clinton will not bring jobs back. that I could tell you. Hillary Clinton, Hillary Clinton doesn't have... Hillary Clinton doesn't have a clue when it comes to what we're talking about. And by the way, she's controlled by all of the people that don't want the jobs to come back, OK. She's controlled. And she's controlled by the open border people, folks. She wants open borders. She wants people to flood in.You know what they just did in the state of Virginia. 200,000 people that were in prison for horrible crimes, for horrible crimes, are being given the right to vote for the first time. That's crooked politics because Virginia is a very close state. I would win Virginia. I have a lot of employees, a tremendous amount of property in Virginia. They're giving 200,000 people that have been convicted of heinous crimes, horrible crimes, the worst crimes, the right to vote, because, you know what, they know they're going to vote Democrat. They're gonna vote Democrat. And that could be the swing. That's how disgusting and dishonest our political system is, all right. It's dishonest.OK, you ready so here's the story folks. You're going to go and you're going to vote and you're going to remember this very warm morning in this tent that should have been bigger but they ran out of... No no they ran out of land. The hotel man told me -- where's my hotel man he's a great guy? Where l is he? He owns a hotel. Where is he? He's like central casting for ownership of a hotel. He said Mr. Trump I've owned this hotel for many years. This is by far the biggest crowd we've ever had. We've never had a son nice oh by the way my son Eric. Come here. come get me thanksMy children, I mean they'll always be children to me I don't care right. But my children have been so amazing. Ivanka, Don, Eric, Tiffany, Baron will be. He's a little on the young side right now. But we've had we've had a great time.So here's what's going to happen I want to thank Eric because now we're going over to Pennsylvania to get he's going to spend the day. But here's what's going to happen you're going to remember this afternoon you're going to remember the fun we had even though the subject is bad, the subject is how we're doing. And I didn't even want to read it because it's too depressing, but I didn't read it, but listen, listen. According to the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics, Rhode Island has lost sixty percent of its manufacturing job since 1990. The Warwick region of the state -- we love Warwick, right -- has lost has lost yeah I know but don't let this happen forty-four percent of its manufacturing jobs since 2001. That's when China joined the World Trade Organization always met a surprise right there are twenty thousand fewer people in the workforce in Rhode Island today than in 2006 that's pretty close right. The number of people on food stamps has increased one hundred and fifty percent.Now here's one I don't like. Syrian refugees are now being resettled in Rhode Island. we don't know where they're from. We don't know where they're from. They have no documentation. We all have hearts and we can build safe zones in Syria and we'll get the Gulf States to put up the money. We're not putting up the money. But I'll get that done. But you know what. We can't let this happen. But you have a lot of them resettling in Rhode Island. Just enjoy your... lock your doors folks OK lucky so it's a big problem we don't know anything about them. We don't know where they come from, who they are. There's no documentation. We have our incompetent government people letting them in by the thousands and who knows, who knows. Maybe it's ISIS you see what happens with two people that became radicalized in California where they shot and killed all their co-workers, OK. Not with me folks. It's not happening with me OK.So here is what, here's what's going to happen. We don't win, don't win. Our country doesn't win anymore. We don't win with our military. We can't beat ISIS. We're going to knock the hell out of them folks because we're going to build a bigger and better military. we don't win for all that's because our vets are not being properly taken care of and they will be if I'm elected president. But we're going to start winning again. We're going to win with our military. We're going to win for our vets. We're going to win an education. We're going to have our local education. That's going to be a beautiful thing to watch. We're going to win with healthcare. We're going to win at the borders. Then we're going to win with trade. We're going to win so much actually, some of you may get tired of winning. You may say please please we can't take it anymore Mr. President. Please please don't win anymore, Mr. President. And you know what I'm going to say I'm sorry we're gonna keep winning we're going to make up for lost time and we are going to make America great again thank you everybody thank you thank you thank everybody.Do we love our country? Do we love our country? This is amazing.And we love Wilkes-Barre. Is that right? We love Wilkes-Barre. We love this area.And we love the state of Pennsylvania and we're bringing it back.We're bringing it back. Thank you, everybody. Wow, what a turnout.And they have 6,000 people outside that can't get in. This place is unbelievable. Hello up there. Unbelievable.So, we have a lot to talk about. This is my last stop. Tomorrow is so important. You're going to go out and vote. Who is going to vote for Trump?We're going to make that the best vote you ever have cast, I promise you, I promise you, believe me. America First, folks. Make America great again, but America First. OK? Remember that.So, just a couple things. And my son Eric is here. You know Eric? He's great, good boy.And this area, he said, dad, make sure you mention natural gas, that we're 100 percent behind it. And we are, 100 -- natural gas, and coal, and coal. We're 100 percent. We're going to bring things back and we're going to bring them back like they have never been before. We are going to take our jobs back. We're bringing our manufacturing back.We're going to take it from all of these countries that for years have been ripping us off because we have politicians that don't know what they are doing. So we're going to take it back.So, you know, the whole deal, you know, this whole thing is crazy.We're leading by millions of votes. We're leading by hundreds of delegates, and it's a rigged system.But I said, you know, let it be rigged. I talk about the boxers. I have a boxer. He's fantastic. A friend of mine, he is a world champion. And he goes into a very unfriendly territory. I said, what are you doing? If you have a good match, you are going to end up losing on a decision with bad judges.He said, Mr. Trump, the only way I have to do it, I have to knock this guy out. I have to knock him on his ass.And he did. And he picked up a big paycheck.So what we're doing is, we're going to win on the first ballot. We only care about the first ballot. And it's sort of interesting, because if you look at these two guys, one is one for 41. I won many, many states.Millions of votes ahead, many states, many delegates. The other one, he's like a total disaster. He goes to New York last week, he doesn't even register, he's so low. He got no delegates. Folks, they ought to both drop out of the race, so we ought to unify the Republican Party.And a great poll just came out. You saw it on the top of Drudge, a great poll that has me even with Hillary Clinton. That's nothing. I haven't started with Crooked Hillary yet. We haven't even started.Amazing. Amazing.We will build a wall. Don't worry about it, man. We will build a wall.That wall is going to get built.This place is unbelievable. This place is unbelievable.All right. So, look, so I go to the...Thank you. Thank you. Oh, man. This is a lot of people. A lot of people. This is incredible. We love you. We love you. You better get put on June, remember, June 7th, you better get out. We're returning it around. I want to thank that dude, see what it says, Latinos for Trump, I love that, thank you, thank you. I love that sign. It's true, too. So thank you to everybody, you know, this is a place -- I love California, I love the state, great feelings. You know, we want to bring on some friends. We have some friends, the Remembrance Project, they were outside, they were taking a picture, I said, "Come on stage with me for a couple of minutes."And these are incredible people. They lost loved ones to illegal immigration, and they're unbelievable. They have suffered. I've gotten to know them over a period of time and come on over here, folks. Come on.APPLAUSEThese are great people. They've become my friends over the last couple of years, and they have really suffered. And a friend of mine, he's really become a great friend of mine, Jamiel Shaw, who is just -- I mean, he had a son who was an incredible, incredible son going to college on a scholarship. He was going to get in on a scholarship. Great football player.And I just want Jamiel representing the group to say a few words and explain what happened and it's tough, it's tough, but your son died with unbelievable purpose because what's happening and when they hear the story, we'll all understand, and then we're going to get back to other things including jobs, Jamiel, right?Jamiel Shaw, a great friend.I got to know all of this people and most of these people. All of them actually. And I will tell you, Jamiel just representing the group. They all have a very similar story to tell and people that shouldn't have been here, people that never should have been allowed to come over the border and they come here like it's nothing, they walk through like it's nothing. And we're going to stop it and we're going to build a wall. We're going to also...We're going to also... We can't have this, folks. We don't have a country anymore. You know, I'm looking at the statistics where your crime numbers are so crazy, they are going through the roof. So, we can't have it anymore. Now look, here's the thing.Now what Jamiel didn't even say, and his boy was amazing, he was just going -- just doing so great. Great student. Great everything. Getting ready to go to college, and every college wanted him. They wanted him for his academics, they wanted him for football.And when Jamiel saw his boy lying there, he started pounding to sidewalk with his hand. He broke his hand just pounding to sidewalk and it's just like this horrible story and they happen so much. Everybody there has essentially the same end result. They have the same story. They are great people. These are unbelievable people. I don't even know how they take it. These are great, unbelievable people. We have to stop it. And you know, their lives are so important.And your relative's lives are so important. Your boys, your girls, all of the people, they did not die in vain, believe me, because it's such an important thing and I just want to thank all of you. You're special, special people. Really brave and just go out and do the. We love you. Thank you. Thank you.Unbelievable people, folks. Unbelievable people.So we're going to do a lot of things in this country. We're going to get our country back to a balance. We're going to -- hey -- we want people to come in, but they have to come in legally. They have to come in through a process. We can't be -- we can't be put in this position anymore and it's going to change, it's going to change for us, look at these crowds of people we're getting no matter where I go.And I just left Indiana. I'm going back very soon and, frankly, they talk about the same thing even where Indiana is located, you wouldn't think it would be a problem, it's a huge problem. People are coming in, nobody knows where they're coming from, you know, the Obama administration is taking people in from the migration.We have people coming in from the Middle East that are brought in, and we have no idea who they are, there's no documentation, there's no paperwork. We're putting them all over the country by the thousands, and we have no idea what the hell is going to happen. We have no idea.So look, folks, we're going to straighten it out, you know, I'll tell you, I was very honored because this last week, the border patrol -- these are amazing people -- they want to do their job, they're not allowed to do their job. They're told to stand back, don't do your -- stand back -- and they endorsed me, 15,500 border patrol agents, and when we let them go to it, they're going to be great even before the wall gets built.But we will build the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall. We're going to stop drugs from coming in. The drugs are poisoning our youth and a lot of other people, and we're going to get it stopped. OK. We're going to get it stopped.And I'll tell you this. Let me just tell you because I see all the Hispanic signs and the Latino signs, and I love the people -- I love the people -- African-American signs, I love that sign, by the way. And we're going to do great with the African-Americans, with the Hispanics, because we're going to bring jobs back to our country.We are going to bring jobs back to this country. Our jobs have been sucked away like you take candy from a baby, we're not going to let it happen anymore, folks, we're not going to let it happen.So we have to be tough. We have to be vigilant. We have to be strong. And I tell this story, good, thank you, darling, I love you, too. Look at that. Great.But I tell this story and in a way it's a rough, rough story, but this country is so politically correct, we don't get anything, we don't understand anything. We don't understand what's going on. We don't understand, and it's the story of General Pershing. Do you know that story? Does anybody know it?It's a rough story, and they were having a tremendous -- this is before the first world war -- they were having a tremendous problem with -- really -- radical Islamic terrorism. They were having an unbelievable problem. General Pershing was a tough, ruthless general. He wouldn't do well today because he was too tough. He was too ruthless, and probably used foul language. So he'd be out. They wouldn't even allow him.So this was a problem that was really out of control. Many people being killed. And it was, I mean, we have a president that doesn't want to use the term and, by the way, Muslims are great people, tremendous people. We're all great people, but we understand where there's a problem you have to bring up the name. It's called, "Radical Islamic Terrorism."I have many Muslim friends -- I have many Muslim friends that call me and they say, "Thank you, Donald. We all want to cure it," but you can't cure a problem if you don't want to mention what that problem is. So for whatever reason.So General Pershing is having -- was sent there to solve a really serious terror problem. They caught 50 radical Islamic terrorists. They caught them. They took the 50; they lined them up. They took a pig, and they took a second pig, and they cut the pig open, and they took the bullets from the rifles. And they dumped the bullets into the pigs and they swashed it around, and then they took the bullets, and they shot 49 of the 50 people.And the 50th person, they said, "Take this bullet and bring it back to all of the people causing the problem and tell them what happened tonight."He took the bullet. He brought it back, that 50th person, and for 42 years, they didn't have a problem with radical Islamic terrorism, folks, OK, believe me.So we're going to have to get a lot tougher than we are because we have problem that you wouldn't believe. During one of the debates, we have this guy, "Lyin' Ted Cruz." We know Lyin' Ted, right. I mean, nobody likes him. I've never seen a guy like this.It's like, oh, he's a liar. I mean, I've never seen -- you know, I go along and I talk about healthcare. I talk about this. He'll go, two hours later, Donald Trump loves Obamacare. By the way, we're going to repeal and replace it just so you understand.But he'll say...-- by the way, Kasich, who voted in favor of NAFTA when he was in congress, which has destroyed everything, and we're not going to let them vote for the Transpacific Partnership. We will get wiped out if they do that. We're not going to let it happen. So what happens is this. So Cruz gets just killed. Kasich gets killed. So now -- these guys have been doing this stuff all their life. I've only been doing it for nine months, right, and they have to double-team me. They have to double-team me.You know, we took them out one by one. We have low-energy Jeb Bush -- and I was going to be nice to Jeb, but I saw he was interviewed today by somebody at NBC and he said bad things. He said, he's not a conservative. Give me a break. He is not a conservative. I am actually a conservative but I'm like smart too, where we have all of this stuff, it's like -- no, I was going to be nice to him, because I like a lot of the people that have disappeared one after another. It's a beautiful sight. Boom, boom, boom. And I was nice to Jeb Bush -- after he got defeated, I was nice. But here's what happens. So I hear he's interviewed today. I say, do me a favor. It's amazing what they can do. They have this thing and like two seconds later, they get me a copy of his interview. I say, let me know -- I figure they're going to give it to me in writing. Let me know, one of my guys, Dan, and he says, I've got it, sir. Like what, 11 seconds later. He's got a machine that's giving me the whole interview. What would you like? He presses Trump and it goes right to that section and he starts hitting me like -- and he did say, he's a gifted, gifted politician. He said that a while ago. And my wife said, why would he say that? I shouldn't tell you this. Maybe he's not so smart. Why would you say that, right? But he hits me today so I feel fine. He's a low-energy person. We don't need low-energy people. Just remember that. We need high energy. We need strength.You know, Hillary -- Hillary, Crooked Hillary, right? Crooked. She's crooked as you can be. Crooked Hillary. No, Crooked Hillary, she said very strongly, I don't like the tone of Donald Trump. The tone. Now, she there's shouting all night long reading off teleprompters. Does she ever make a speech where there's not -- I mean, she won the other night -- I'm sort of glad she won. I really want to beat her more than Sanders. And you know, the system is rigged on both sides. It's rigged on our side. I have 5 million -- I have so many votes more than like Cruz and Kasich and yet, you know, they go in and they sort of semi-bribe all these people and the delegates and all of a sudden -- it's just a terrible system. I mean, it's a terrible system.But Hillary said, I don't like the tone. Now, here we are in a world that's going to hell, we have people's heads are being cut off. You know, not since medieval times -- I used to love history. It was like my favorite, I loved history. And you'd read about medieval times, right? Medieval times, chop off heads. Now we're chopping off heads. I mean, I didn't see anything about this. Even the wild west, they'd shoot you but they don't chop off the head. Chop off the heads, drown people in these big cages, 50 at a time, drop -- and she said, I don't like his tone. His tone is nasty. Folks, folks -- we need a tough tone, folks. We need a tough tone. We need a tough tone. Believe me. Believe me. For a while, at least, we're going to need it. You know, when they talked to Lyin' Ted, so we were at the debate -- and I've been at the center of every single debate, number one. Number one. Won every debate according to all of the pollsThank you. That's so beautiful. Thank you.See, we're all getting softer, you understand, and our country's getting softer. But I'll tell you what, that was the -- that was the good old days. So Fred -- get over here for a second, Fred. Come here. That was so nice. I love people that hit hard. We need people that hit hard. Come here.He was a hitter. He was a hitter. You know, after one or two hits, they sort of said, "I don't want to catch the ball anymore, " right?And a really amazing guy, somebody that Bobby Knight has so much respect for. He said, "You play this guys, it's brutal always. It was always tough."Coach Keady, come on out. Come here.Coach, come on over.What a great man and a great family. I just met his wife, and she's incredible. We've had so much support.So I just got a call, Lou Holtz just endorsed us. So Lou, Lou is another one.What incredible -- what incredible people, such spirit. And you know, I love that you people -- but sit down. We'll stay for each other for a long time. Sit down.You know, it's so nice. So often, I'll say, "Sit down, " they just refuse. You're going to sit down. This is a beautiful place, by the way. This is nice. It's nice.We're going to take good care of everyone, but it's America First now, folks. It's America First. Just remember that. Just remember that.You know, I watch television. There was a group of people. I don't even know them because I'm doing another one of these at seven. I've been doing them all. But I love doing them. A friend of mine, very, very successful -- I love doing them.But a friend of mine, a very, very successful guy came with me to one. I had 24,000, 25,000 in Tampa, Florida. And he said, how do you that? Get before these people. I said, you know, honestly -- this guy's a really successful guy, great guy.And not because he's successful, he's great. He's one of the few. He's rich but he's a nice guy. Most of the rich aren't so nice, but that's OK.But we still want them negotiating our trade deals for us, not these political hacks. Believe me.So, he said, how do you that with so many people? I said, you know, honestly, you get before them and its like we're all in love. We're like -- we're just going to straighten out this country. We love our country. We love each other. And our rallies are the safest place you can be on Earth. You don't read that, you don't hear that.But our rallies are safe and beautiful. And there's love in the room. And it's so easy to speak when you have that kind of love in the room. And that kind, whether I'm in a place like this or in arena, no matter where you are, we want to make America great again.And I said to him, it's so easy to speak. It really is. He still didn't believe me. But believe me, it is. OK. So, I appreciate you all being here. And I really appreciate -- thank you.I really appreciate Indiana. But there was a tremendous line and they started assembling it. And it was on Fox and it was on all of them, CNN. But it was a huge line and I'm not sure. It might be for the 7 o'clock speech.But it was just this tremendous line. And they met a few young guys that were definitely was like Cruz. Cruz was like -- you know, this guy is a liar. That's why we call him Lyin' Ted. We call him Lyin' Ted.I never saw -- did you know that Donald Trump wants to raise your taxes by 40 percent? And the guy said, no he doesn't. Did you know that he is in favor in Obamacare? No, he's not. But I mean -- and when he said it, he meant it, this guy. This guy knew.And it was very -- you know, he actually said, how's your loan doing at Goldman Sachs. That was, I thought, the coolest. Now, is that guy here with the sunglasses? I don't know if he's here or seven. But whoever he is, I thought he was very cool. I thought him and his friends.Because, they're not going to be buffaloed by lies.By lies. You know, I wrote down some of the things this guy was saying on Cruz. And it's just unbelievable that I was going to raise taxes. I have the biggest tax cut of anybody running for office by far. And in fact, if there was one criticism of my tax plan and policy, it was that I lowered taxes too much, OK?And he said -- it's true. I was the one the Wall Street Journal said, we can't afford that much of a tax decrease. And I have Cruz saying, he's going to raise your taxes 40 percent. It's unbelievable. Lyin' Ted. It's unbelievable.He made a statement that Donald Trump doesn't intend to build a wall. Believe me folks, we're building the wall. Believe me. We're building the wall.No, we're building the wall. We have no choice? Do we have a choice? We have to...The loyalty to all of us. You know, I'm sort of just -- I consider myself a messenger. I'm a good messenger. I mean, I've been doing this for nine months. These other guys have been doing it for 35 years we're -- boom, boom boom. We're knocking them out like corn flakes, right? But honestly the whole thing -- it's a movement that's going on and it's -- I call it a movement to competence because a lot of it's common sense.It's like getting into a great school. Often if you like apply to Harvard or you apply to the Wharton School of Finance or to apply to Stanford or you apply -- it's really hard to get in but once you're there it's OK. It's sort of like much easier.And you won't have to fire a shot. We handed it to them. Should have never been there. Should have never got out the way the way Obama got that. How about that? It takes everybody immediately and announces the date. Now the enemy said, "ah, there's no way he's moving that date." Turned out he was right and that's why I say we have to be unpredictable especially militarily.They'll ask me sometimes -- yeah.We got to be -- we've got to be unpredictable. We've got to -- we are so totally predictable and it's so embarrassing. No matter what happens -- it's so embarrassing and what we're going to do is we're going to go out and we're going to make our country so great again and it's not going to be -- we're not going to be embarrassed anymore but what happens.We're not going to be embarrassed that our ten sailors get captured, get treated like hostages, like prisoners and the only reason they gave them back -- now with me they would have given them back, OK? With me they would have not taken them. Believe me, they would not have taken them.But the only reason we got them back is because in two days the money was supposed to start flowing into Iran. And you look at what's happening and you look at how sad it is and that we didn't get our prisoners -- the original four and there's actually another over there by the way that nobody even talks about. But that we didn't get our four prisoners back before we started negotiating years ago is a disgrace. We should never negotiate under circumstances like that. Never.Never. So I marked down some of the things -- we have two people left. One is Kasich. He's a nice guy. Now they made this stupid deal -- anybody in business would not have made the deal and by the way since making the deal their numbers tanked. It was stupid. It was politicians making deals. They're politicians -- they're making deals.How stupid is this deal and while I assume they didn't ink it I still say before the ink was dry it was violated by both parties, right? Politicians, this is what we have. These are the people that negotiate for us. These are the people that are giving us and giving away trillions and trillions of dollars. This is why we have deficits that are 19 trillion and it's going to be 21 trillion very, very soon with that really dumb omnibus budget. And you look at what happened with that. Then he picks Carly. Carly's perfectly nice.By the way she fell off the stage the other day. Did anybody see that?And Cruz didn't do anything. That was a -- even I would have helped her, OK? No, it's true. The weirdest thing.They just showed it to me coming in. I said, "No, I didn't see it." They just showed it to me. And I said, "Wow, that's really cruel." She fell off -- she just went down. She went down a long way, right? And she went down right in front of him and he was talking, he kept talking. He didn't even look like -- that was a weird deal.Man. And then they were both talking. She was talking from the back and he was talking from there. They were both talking. That's so weird. But that was unnecessary and it was a bad thing to do. And you know, I said he set a record. First candidate in the history of this country who has no path to victory who can't win and he picked a vice presidential candidate.That's hard. And you've got to give her credit for accepting it. She said, "I'll accept it even though there's no chance of winning." I mean, that's...It's a weird deal. But you know, you have so many different things and I love seeing all of those people in line, and they were there from six o'clock that -- Fox and CNN, they're all saying from six o'clock in the morning. All that big line, that big, huge line, thousands and thousands of people. And even here, there are thousands of people outside that wanted to get in. You people know real estate a little bit better. Congratulations. Look at the people in the front row. Pretty good, right?Pretty good. Pretty good.But I -- you know, I look and I look at the -- the difficulty of politics. I mean, you know, I've been doing this for a fairly short period of time. I've never seen lying and deception and all of the things like this. I've been in business, and they're no angels. And frankly, they're much tougher people. Business is tougher, but -- and again, they're not the greatest. You've good ones, you've got bad ones like everything else. But I've never seen lying and deception like you see in politics. It's terrible. It's terrible. It's truly terrible.Right? And then I'm hearing Cruz -- then I'm hearing Cruz today, "Donald Trump loves Obamacare. He will keep it. He will this." It's so -- and I want to take that television and I want to smack it, but I can't. I can't. And I heard another good one. "I picked Carly Fiorina as our vice president. Donald Trump, on the other hand, will campaign with Mike Tyson."It's true. Now, I don't know anything, but Mike was nice enough -- I don't know. I heard on the internet he endorsed me. He said, "I endorse Donald Trump." I will say, when you have guys like this, the coach and Fred and all of the people and Bobby Knight, such an incredible guy. What an incredible guy. What an incredible...And so many people. I mean, I'm really proud when you think 16,500 border patrol agents, first time they've ever endorsed a presidential candidate, they endorse...And Sheriff Joe and I mean, it's amazing. It's amazing. So many of the pastors and the ministers have endorsed us. It's -- it's been -- it's been just an incredible experience. For me, it's been an incredible -- it's been an incredible experience.And great people. I mean, just great people. And I just -- I just want to say that, you know, having done this now and having been for a long time and having so many friends in Indiana and Bobby sort of said it better than anybody could say it. He said, "Trump's going to be a great president." See, I can't say that about myself, although I'll say it because that's what we want to hear. I mean, I'm going to bring it back and we're going to bring it back. But he said, "Trump's going to be a great president."And honestly, if we win Indiana, it's over. It's over.They're finished. They're gone. They're gone.And if we don't, they'll win it next week, or the week after, or the week after. It's fine because they have no path -- was there ever an easy path? I mean, we'll win it in the first ballot. And when I look at these guys going around and talking to delegates, and buying them hot dogs, and hamburgers, and hotel rooms, or this or that, and they're all playing -- just so you understand, they're all playing for the second, third, fourth bat.They're never going to get there. We are way over and way ahead of projection and we'll do it on the first ballot. But if we win Indiana, it's over.So -- and Bobby said, "this way, Indiana can take the credit when Trump does a good job and I want to remember that, OK."So I want to thank all of the folks and I want to thank Bobby, I'll tell you, he was something. We trekked around all over the place and he was amazing. And you ought to see the love in the room.Coach Cady, same thing, he said, "Bobby was such a great guy." And Bobby has such a respect for the coach. But when Bobby came round and we went around from place to place, and people would stand up for five minutes and they just loved this guy. They want to win.He won 900 games. Think of it, three championships, it's tough to win those championships, he won three. 900 games he won and you know, he won the Olympics, and he won the PanAm Games right?And he had the last undefeated season in college basketball, I mean, and he almost had two. And he said, "Donald, if you mention the one before because the season before, I lost one game. Say that I screwed up, " meaning he screwed up. I said, "coach, I don't want to say, how could I -- what were you like 32 -1, and I'm going to say you screwed up?" "No, no, " he said, "I put in the wrong player, just tell them, they'll understand." I said, "I refuse to say it, " so I said, "he wants me to say that he screwed up." Wouldn't it be nice to have a coach that screwed and you're like 32-1 or something like that? Everybody wants that kind of a coach. So anywise, Bobby's been great, I wanted to just thank them.I just thank everybody. It's been an incredible experience for me and I've learned a lot. I mean, I've learned a lot. And you know, one of the things I like to do before I go to an area, and by the way, even your governors have treated me very nicely. I have to tell you, he was under pressure. He was under a lot of pressure from his supporters and from people that put up money, from politicians in all fairness, and you know, the donors and special interest, and you're under pressure.He said nicer things about me than he said about Cruz. It's true, right if you think about? And I like him, and I like him. But you know he said nicer things about me than Cruz. And the role of pundits said, " you know what, I think that was maybe the weakest endorsement in the history of endorsements, " it's true.In fact at the end, they had one group had to rerun the tape just to find out who he was -- so it's sort of fun.But they're under a lot of a pressure. You know, I'm self- funding my campaign so I don't have any pressure. I don't have pressure. I'm going to do what's right for you.Cruz tells you about Wall Street, or the big bad bankers, and this and that, and all the stuff.Now, he didn't put down on his personal financial disclosure form that he borrowed a million dollars from CitiBank and Goldman Sachs. He didn't say that. He left it off which you're not allowed to do. You know, that's a big violation. I don't know what's the recourse but it's a big violation.But in fact, one of the guys mentioned this morning that -- you know, we're sort of debating on our front, what about Goldman Sachs? The guy knew what he was talking about. He left out the million dollars, didn't put it down on his personal financial disclosure form. And then he'll come and tell you about how he's going to protect you from the banks. Let me tell you, Goldman Sachs and CitiBank have him totally under the control folks, believe me. OK, he may talk but believe me, they have him 100 percent under control.Me? I'm not taking money so it's very easy OK?So what I like to do is -- and it's become very depressing, but don't be depressed, because we're going to turn it around. But it is. It's depressing. I asked my statisticians. I have people. They do nothing but stats, which can't be a very exciting job right?I wouldn't want it. They love it. Me, I wouldn't want that job. But they're good at it. And they get it right from the books. And they said this area, which is a great area, great people, has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since 2001, the year Congress voted to put China into the World Trade Organization. Mistake.The vote gave China permanent, most favored nation trading status. That gives them an advantage. Why? What are we doing? Why? And I do a lot of business with China. And I love China. China's fine. I made a lot of money with China.They have the biggest bank in the world as my tenant in Manhattan, one of my building. Good tenant. Pays the rent on time.This is a serious -- the bank has 400 million customers. That's a big bank. That's means that's Citibank -- I said to the head of the bank, how big are you compared to, let's say, Citibank? And they said, that is like a small subsidiary.You know, it's like -- it's true. It's like a little bank by comparison. But it's my tenant. I have two big buildings, Bank of America building in San Francisco and 1290 Avenue, the Americas, it's one of the biggest buildings in New York, biggest floor place.And I got that through China. Not friendly, unfriendly. It was a war. And it's turned out to be a great deal with a wonderful partner. And we ended up making a fantastic deal. And they buy condos like they are mashed potatoes from me.You don't understand. It's like pancakes. I'll take one $10 billion. I'll take one for $9 billion. Nothing against China. And I'm not angry at China. I'm not angry at Mexico. And I'm not angry at India or Vietnam, which is hot as a pistol right now, taking a lot of stuff away from us.I'm not angry at Japan. They send cars over by the million. We give them practically nothing. You talk about a trade unbalance. They're up here. We're down like below that stage. It's trade imbalance. I'm not angry at any of them.I'm angry at our leaders for being grossly incompetent and not knowing -- right?And not knowing what they're doing, because there's no reason for it.So a few more things, Indiana has lost 5,000 jobs over the last period of time, manufacturing jobs. In the last three months, you lost 5,000 jobs? That's not good, OK? According -- last three months, you lost 5,000 jobs.Somebody else says, oh you're doing well. Great. According to the Federal Reserve, real median household income in the state of Indiana has declined $10,000 since 1999. That means you're working harder and you're making less.Some of you have two jobs. I understand it. You know, nobody else understood it. They're all trying to say, what's going on with Trump? I understand it. I grew up -- you know, my father was a builder in Brooklyn and Queens and I would work on jobs.And I get to know people. People say, why do you relate so well to like, carpenters and electricians? And I mean, I grew up with them. I know them better. Frankly, I don't like the rich people so much if you want to know the truth.Those are the ones I don't like as much. Not nearly as much. But look at this. This area lost about 15 percent of its construction jobs since The Recession. The city of Indianapolis has lost one third of its manufacturing jobs since 1990.It's true. Otherwise they'll say he's a very repetitive person. Well, they only do it because of the ratings but I do, I have to change it up. These other guys, they walk around, they read the exact same speech at every single stop, right? Every single stop they read a speech and it's always within 30 seconds of length and then they walk out.People fall asleep. Everyone's sleeping, everyone goes home. Nobody votes for them, they're out of the race. Me, I don't have any teleprompters. I'm up here all by myself, OK? I'm up here all by myself.Even for victory speeches I saw the other night Hillary Clinton -- she's got a teleprompter and we will travel north and south and east and west. And I would say that she started screaming at the teleprompter but I'm not allowed to say that.You know why? Now if she was a man I could say it but as a woman ladies I'm sorry I'm not allowed say it. She was screaming at the teleprompter but I will not say it, OK?Many women tell me it's terrible what she's doing and a poll just came out one hour ago. The Rasmussen poll where Trump is leading Hillary Clinton, OK? Leading. Trump is leading.We're going to win. We're going to win. No, I watch this Cruz guy. I am the only who can win this race. He sounds like Shakespeare, right? This is like, everything's always Shakespeare even if he's making a simple statement.I am the only one -- I always kid but I'm not -- unfortunately I'm telling the truth. He walks up with a bible held high, right? Held high, the bible, boom. Then he comes over and he starts lying like nobody I've ever seen.But he's -- and by the way and also another poll, the Wall Street Journal came out just now, Trump in Indiana which is what we care about although we do love their national poll I have to say.In order words, winning in Indiana without the rest of it none of us are too happy. But in Indiana Trump is over Hillary 48 to 41.But Kasich who has not had one negative ad and he's a nice guy. I don't like his eating habits to be totally honest,In fact, I was eating at a good restaurant today in Indianapolis. A nice -- really nice place and the owner was great and they were serving food. I said -- turned off all the cameras -- camera...I don't want any -- but it's true. I always tell my son, little tiny bites. I tell all my kids -- Ivanka, Don, Eric, Tiffany -- all as they were growing up -- little, little bites and I see him...I don't get it and I've never seen a man make so many news conferences while he's eating. He's always eating. He's never standing up having a news conference so when I sat down I just said, "do me a favor, get those cameras away. I don't want to be " -- they'll say I'm copying him. I don't want that. But his standard line -- and Cruz more than any -- he said, "I am the only one that beat Hillary Clinton." He's going to get killed. Killed.So, he has that negative ad and Kasich hasn't had one negative ad because nobody cares, you know? There's no -- listen to this. So I was saying 55,000 as of a week ago. Well, it's changed. I've had 60,000 -- hard to believe. Although, if it were me, you'd believe it because I -- every time I see one, and it's all the time.I was in Florida and I'm telling you, I won Florida in a landslide. But I tell my people there's no way I can win. I tell my people the day before the election there is no way I can win because I was there, I own Doral and we had this major golf tournament. You know, world championship. Cadillac world championship. Adam Scott won.And I'm there and I'm telling you, I said to my people, "It's going to be embarrassing. I mean, there's no way I can win." Every single ad in Florida for weeks was a negative ad on me, and they were false ads. Well, 90 percent, 95 percent.Maybe even 95. But they were false ads. So many -- so much lies and deception. False. But they were one after another after another, four or five ads in a row, and my people said, "Mr. Trump, congratulations. You're going to win in a landslide." I said, "How can I win? I've got all these negative ads." I said, "I'm telling you, I'm not going to win." That's my own insecurity coming out, OK?But I said, "I'm not going to win, " and we won by like more than 20 points. We won in a landslide, you know? Won in a landslide.And then last night, I'm here and I'm watching television, I see all these phony ads. One after another after another. You know, "Stop Trump, " or "Never Trump, " or whatever the hell they call it.And they -- they form the alliance in order to -- Never Trump -- because you know what? Because the people putting up the money own companies and they do business with China and they do business with Mexico and they want to keep it the way it is, folks. But we're getting killed in these deals, OK? So they're putting up all this money. One guy put up $3 million. One guy owns the Chicago Cubs. I'm rooting against that team now. They -- no, no. Think of it.This guy, Ricketts or something, you know, I never met him. He owns the Chicago Cubs, he's putting up millions. I don't even know the guy. Can you imagine how badly I'd do if he knew me? I'd do even worse I guess. I don't even know him. I never -- I have no idea who he is. I still like them, they're a nice team. OK.But you know what? He's putting up millions. Like somebody said, $3 million, $4 million, I said, "$3 million, $4 million, for what?" I'll do a better job than anybody else. Why are they doing this? The only reason is people have interests that you'll never know about and they do bet against the country, and they don't mind when the country loses its jobs. They don't mind when Carrier leaves 1,400 people go that are great people, moves to Mexico, makes air conditioners, sells them across the border, no tax, no thing, makes more money, OK?And the air conditioners aren't going to sell for more money. They're going to sell for the same price because they have to compete with Trane. I buy a lot of air conditioners. Boy, do I buy -- I buy televisions and air conditioners, I buy a lot. But they've got to keep it competitive. All it is is they're going to make more money. They're going to let go of 1,400 people.Now, here's the difference with me. You know, for years, you've been reading where the federal government is trying to stop the tremendous onslaught of companies that are leaving our country, and that means jobs, folks. It means huge money and it means jobs. So they say, "Well, we'll give them low interest loans." They don't need loans, they've got a lot of money. We'll give them other things. We'll give them all sorts of -- they don't need incentives. They don't incentives.Let's give them a real incentive. Every single time they make an air conditioning unit in Mexico and send it across our now very strong border, they'll pay a 35 percent tax. That's all. That's all. That's all.And you know what? They'll still make money. But one of two things will happen. Either our country's going to make a hell of a lot of money because they're going to still sell them -- because it may be too late. You know, maybe they've started their plant, it's probably never too late. We'll get them to come back.You know, if we charge them -- they're still coming back. And I tell this to the politicians, "we like free market." Free market is great, I'm a free market guy but not when you're getting killed. We're getting killed.I mean, look at your numbers, your numbers -- you're doing better than a lot of states, not a lot better. It actually surprised me when I look at some of these numbers, about Indianapolis, it's lost practically half of their jobs -- their manufacturing jobs.Steel, look at steel, it's been wiped. Your coal industry is wiped. And here China is taking our coal. So China, and I'm going to open up clean coal. OK, we're going to open up our coal industry and we have miners that are incredible people.I mean, we have this President that flies to Hawaii in a 747 with a big old engine, spewing stuff in the air, and he plays golf for two and half or three weeks. Then he gets on the 747 -- scroll there for us -- when he comes back, and he has a speech on the carbon footprint. Give me a break. Give me a break.And in the meantime, our miners and our steel workers are being laid off all over the place. OK, not going to happen anymore folks. OK, it's going to happen anymore.Not going to happen.So the numbers -- I love you too. Where was that? Who was that person? Stand up. Great first lady, thank you. That is very nice. Thank you.So it's not going to happen anymore. We're going to be the smart people now. We're going to be the smart people.We can't continue to allow every nation in the world to think of us as fools. And you know, the funny thing, they're going to like us better when we get smart. They don't even like us.Look at China, we have rebuilt China. They have taken so much money out of our country, they have rebuilt. When you have a trade -- look at the trade deficit with China, $500 billion a year, a year. $500 billion OK? Now, negotiated by fools, I mean, maybe they have a conflict of interest, I don't know, in which case they'd be dishonest, not fools. OK, that would be even worse.It was negotiated by hacks, political hacks. I've got the greatest business people in the world. They're going to go and make unbelievable deals for us. We are going to turn it around. We are going to take jobs back. And you know, what's to happen, China is going to have more respect for us. They have no respect for us. They think we're a bunch of dummies.Now, I've negotiated a lot with China as I've told you. And they come in waves. They don't come with one person, they come with 20 people and every one of them has an 180 IQ. And if one makes mistakes, another one, another one, they have like it's a catch basin. And we'll have some dope sitting there negotiating, and then we wonder why, why we're doing to badly.I've got people that are better than anybody. They're the best in the world. They're very rich people, they don't want money, they don't want anything, they want to play the chess game. You know, they like it and they want to play the game.And you know, those deals are bigger than any corporate deal. A deal like that, trade with China, you can take all your steel companies, everything else, and put them together, it's like a peanut compared to it. These people would love to do it and they want to do it for their ego. They actually love the country. Some of these guys are you know, not the nicest people and some are fantastic people.Carl Icahn endorsed me, great business man. Other people endorsed me, great business people. And we want to give it to our best and I know the best negotiators. I know guys that are overrated. I know people that are underrated that you've never heard of that are better than anybody. We're going to have great, great business people. So think of China, they've stripped our country and you know, we owe them $1.8 trillion, right? Does anybody know that? We owe them -- on top of -- so they take our jobs. They take our money. And we owe them $1.8 trillion. That's like a magic act in reverse.I want some of the magic act. But we have to turn it around. China has no respect for us. We give them state dinner. Their leaders come in. We give them state dinners at the White House. And I said, don't do that. Let them come in to negotiate? What are you doing?I actually jokingly said, let us take them to a McDonald's we'll have McDonald's and we'll get back to negotiations. Seriously. What are we doing?We're honoring people and again I get along great with China. I love -- they're all great. I'm just so angry at our leaders for being so incompetent for being so stupid. OK. For being so stupid.So we have rebuilt China. And they have done it to Europe in a much smaller way. But, we have rebuilt China. And bridges and tunnels and -- you've never seen anything like it. You go to China, they have highways like you have never seen. You see airports.And also, you look at other places. You look at places in the Middle East. You look at places that you have never seen anything like what's going on. We're like a third-world country. And we're the ones that should be at the top. And we're at the bottom.Our educational system is no good. Out of 30 countries, we're ranked 30th. You have Sweden, you have Norway, you have Denmark, you have China, you have Japan. You have other countries that are all in the top five and ten. We're number 30. And yet, we spend more per pupil than any other country by so much, that there is no second place.It's so far behind us, and yet we're 30. Because we have this Common Core. It's a disaster. But it's even beyond that. We're going to get rid of Common Core, bring it local in all of them.You know, I always say that I spent less money on the campaign than any other candidate, any other, certainly major candidate. But I spent far less money. Although I'm in for like $40 million bucks. It's not peanuts. It's still a lot of money, right?But you've got to see these guys. I mean, Jeb Bush had a thing like $168 million. He's been out of here for months right? He's got nothing. And I wouldn't bring up his name. He said -- he was nasty the other day. They interviewed him.What do you think of Trump? Well, he did call me a phenomena. That was the only good thing. Other than that, it wasn't so good. I said, what's he saying bad about me? He's out of the race, he should be saying positive.Well, I wouldn't bring him up. But when they say bad about me -- you know, don't we agree? They said bad about me, I say bad about them. Who the hell cares?But he said nasty things. He said he is not a true conservative. Who cares? We want to straighten out our country, you know? He's too conservative. What's the true conservative?He is not a true conservative. He's always said that. He is not a true conservative. And I say, folks, first of all, I am a conservative. But they wouldn't say I'm conservative on trade, because a conservative is supposed to want free trade.It doesn't matter how badly you get ripped off. It doesn't matter that this country is losing all of its jobs, all of its money. We're third-world status. It doesn't make any difference. National review. We will stay true to the core.And we will let other countries continue to rip us off, because we want to remain a true conservative. And we want free trade. But I like free trade too. But the problem is we don't have people who are smart negotiating our deals, OK?So, therefore, we can't do that right now. I'm sorry. Maybe there will be a time when we can go back to free trade. But you can't have free trade when China and others -- but China is the biggest abuser. China is a world-class grand master chess player and they are playing against checker players that are not good at it. That's our people. They're world-class grand masters.They devalue their currency. Every time they devalue I just see dollar signs pouring out of the country. They're not supposed to be doing that but Obama doesn't know what's happening and he's too busy doing other things including playing golf and whatever and he allows it to happen.About six months ago I'll never forget I said well, they'll never be able to devalue again. That was two years ago and they did the greatest devaluation in the last 20 years -- six months ago, five months ago and a massive devaluation. Which meant let's take more money out of the United States. We're going to take more -- our economy's going a little bit bad, let's take more money out of the United States and we let them get away with it.We can't let that happen. Just remember -- just remember they're taking that money from us mostly. They're taking it out of our country, they're taking it out of our hide, they're taking it out of our jobs. We're losing everything so we have to fight back.Now, am I a free trader? Absolutely. Will I allow our country to be ripped off for years and years to come because I want to say I'm a free trader? Absolutely not, folks. Absolutely not. I won't do it.And once they hear -- a week ago I get a letter from high official at China and it was called in that Wall Street Journal -- somebody called me and they wanted a response to the letter. And it was a letter of protest that do not like the rhetoric of Donald Trump. I was so happy because they've never complained before.They've never complained before and they wanted a response and my response was yes, here's my response. Tell whoever wrote the letter that the minister of finance -- one of the top people in China wrote a letter.Sort of a letter of protest -- was angry that our partnership with the United States -- partnership -- I don't want that partnership. I want a partnership that works. Not a partnership where we're getting ripped for $505 billion to be exact, right? Our partnership with the United States is in jeopardy. Well, maybe we're better off not having that partnership. That's another way you could look at it, OK?So -- and these eggheads that you watch on television -- and believe me I'm much smarter than they are, OK? Just so you understand. They call them the elite -- the elite. I have a nicer apartment then they do. I have a nicer plane than they do. They're elite. Why are they elite? We're elite, folks. We're elite. We're all elite, OK? They're not elite.They always talk about the elite, the elite. Half of them -- I won't go into it but very dishonest people. And some are true believers and really -- some are true believers and they're wrong. They're wrong. We can't afford it anymore and I tell the -- last couple of times I told the story about a friend of mine.He's unbelievable. He's dying. He was supposed to have died a year ago. He's just a physically and mentally very strong person and he's a really good guy. Tough guy, though. Really tough and he was supposed to have died a year ago. And he keeps hanging on and I call and every day the doctor told me a year ago. Good doctor -- says, "Mr. Trump, he won't be around for another month if he's lucky."That's too bad and he's still living. That was a year ago and I say -- I sort of equate it to our country. And I call him and I say, "how you doing?" And he said, "I'm OK. I'm doing good. Feel better."I say, "It's amazing. I love you. You're so incredible. You're tough, man. I love tough." Coach is tough, Bobby Knight is tough, Fred is tough. People are tough and they're good. It's -- we need toughness. We need a certain toughness, right? We need a toughness.But it a certain way I equate it to our country because our country is like -- we've been abused for years and years and years. We're been losing to China for years. We've been losing to Japan with the cars. They send in millions of cars. We send them wheat. We send them nothing, practically. The trade imbalance is massive.I -- I look at what's going on and I sort of equate our country to that. We just keep hanging on, hanging on. But in the meantime, you people are making less money. We just said it. You're making less money than you were making 20 years ago, 18 years ago to be exact. Probably 20 -- probably 25 -- and working harder.But I related him all of a sudden to the country, how strong, how incredible our country is. To be in a position that we can afford to be abuse by everybody in the world like that and we're still here. It's incredible. How great will we be when we get it straightened out? And they're going to -- they're going to be fine. They're going to be fine with it.So China is our number one abuser and -- and I don't blame them, because they can get away with it, but China is our number one abuser. But what are they doing? They're building a massive military fortress in the middle of the South China Sea, right? They're not supposed to be doing that. They're not supposed to be doing that. Why are they doing that? They have no respect for our president, they have no respect for our country. They're not supposed to be doing that.Now, should we retaliate? The way we retaliate is economically, I don't think we want to start, you know, doing anything for that. And then you also say well, it affects Japan, it affects other countries. And we defend Japan and I like Japan. I like the people of Japan. I have a lot of friend sin Japan. But we defend Japan. We defend South Korea. We defend Germany. A lot of people didn't know this. I don't -- do you know we defend Germany? Do you know that we're defending Germany? We are defending Germany, we're defending Japan.Japan wanted to beat the hell out of China many years ago, right? Japan went in and did a big number on Korea. I mean, we're defending -- we are defending Japan, and that's OK because why should we let the, start building up? But you know what we're losing on these deals? We are defending the world. We're defending Germany, Japan, South Korea. South Korea's a monster economically. You want a television? It's South Korea. You want air conditioning -- you want anything, you've got to order -- the biggest ships are made in South Korea.We defend them. We have 28,000 soldiers on the border, right, 28,000 between North and South -- the maniac. I call him the maniac. We've got to do something about that. And by the way, China can do it with a phone call, OK? They can do it with a phone call. All we have to do is say, "Got to do it. Go to do it, folks. You better do it." This guy's playing with nuclears. Our biggest problem.You know, Obama thinks our biggest problem is global warming, can you believe this? No, it's true. I heard it and I said, "No, no. That's a joke. Who told that joke? That sounds very -- was that Jimmy Fallon?"Was that Jimmy Kimmel? Who told that joke? That's very -- no, no. That's not a joke. And then I went and he really meant it. Our biggest problems is global warming of the nuclear variety, and we better be damn careful.We better be damn careful. We better be very, very careful.So you look at what's going on and we defend all these people. We defend Saudi Arabia. Now, until the oil went down -- they're still making a fortune -- but until the oil went down, they were making $1 billion a day, $1 billion a day. We defend them.And we have military bases where we pay the rent. We pay rent, OK? Think of it. We pay rent. They probably negotiate, "We'll give you a good deal. Pay us " -- what? "Pay us." We're paying rent. What's going on? How stupid -- how stupid are these people? How stupid?$1 billion a day and I have many friends in Saudi Arabia. They're good people. Talk about people buying apartments, I mean, seriously, they got so much money they don't know what to do. They make my plane look small. I'm very embarrassed.They wouldn't be there honestly for two weeks if we didn't defend them. If you look at what's going over with Iran, Iran is now taking over Iraq. Look at the rioting in Iraq just like I predicted. I'm really good at this stuff.You know, they say, "Donald Trump " and they never put in what I say. For instance they say, "Donald Trump wants Japan to arm and wants Japan to go nuclear." No, I never said that. I said, " I want them to pay us to defend them, and if they won't perhaps someday they're just going to have to at it alone." We can't continue to be the policeman of the world.The dishonest press, of which many of those cameras are rolling right now, they're the most dishonest human beings. I don't know, Ted Cruz is right up there. These are the most dishonest human beings in the world.I watch what I say and I say it very carefully. I'm like smart, I say carefully. And I always say, they have to pay. I don't want make threats, I just say, you gotta reimburse us, you gotta help us out. We owe $19 trillion, soon to be $21 trillion, you've got to take care of us.Somebody was saying the other day, a general was on television, first of all, a general should not be on television. I don't want our generals on television. I will prohibit them. I don't want them saying things like, "our nation has never been so ill-prepared." I don't want, even though it's true, I don't want the enemy knowing that. I want to build it up before they find out.I don't want them going on television. Our generals, you think General George Patton or General Douglas MacArthur, do you think they'd be on television saying about how weak we are? Number one, they wouldn't be on television because they'd be knocking the hell out of the enemy they wouldn't have time, OK.But I mean, I see -- a certain general, I don't want to mention his name because he's a high quality guy. He's getting ready to leave a year ago. He said, "We are less prepared now than at any point, our Army -- and I think he said, "in our history." Now that's a long time. That's assuming the last 34 years but I think he said our history.So assuming that's true, which I believe it is, I don't want everybody to know about it. They did a piece on "60 Minutes, " they talked about our nuclear arsenal. Did anyone see that? It was a disaster, talking about the phones don't work, the equipment's old, we don't know if anything works. I don't want people to know about it but we gotta fix it. We got to fix it.We never want to use it. We never want to use. We never want to use nuclear. But you know what, there are nine countries right now that have it. There are other people trying to get it. We at least have to be prepared. I never -- I'm the one that didn't want to go into Iraq. You know, a lot of people say, "Trump is definitely the toughest guy of all the candidates, " Great, big deal. I hope I'm the smartest.The combination is good. But if he's tough, he may have a quick finger. I'll have the slowest finger you can imagine. I'll be the slowest. Again, that's what I tell -- no Iraq, we did it. Take the oil, we didn't do it. Well, we're leaving, I said, "take the oil." You know, if we took the oil, ISIS wouldn't be able to fuel themselves.Did you know Libya was just totally Hillary Clinton? That was her brilliant thing. I mean, this woman is a disaster, she's a disaster.No, no, she's a disaster.You know what Bernie Sanders said? "She's essentially not equipped to be president." You know, they stopped him very, very quickly. They stopped him. Don't say these things. You're going to give Trump ideas. Believe me, I got them already. I got them.I got them. He said -- he said she's not qualified to be president. He said that. I said, "tell me -- tell me he didn't say that. That's too good to be true." He said -- look at this. I wrote because I want the exact -- he said not qualified to be president. Now that's a big stretch but he said she suffers from bad judgment. It's true. It's true.Emails -- bad judgment. Iraq -- voted yes. Bad judgment. Libya, bad judgment. All bad judgment. So now what's happened? Libya has great oil. Gadhafi -- Gadhafi, well she wanted -- hey. She wanted to -- she wanted to get rid of Gadhafi. She wanted to get rid of Gadhafi and they wanted to get rid of Saddam Hussein. You know what they had in common? One thing they had in common. They killed terrorists, right?But look at Libya, look at Libya. Oil that's so pure and ISIS has it now. ISIS has -- we're not doing anything about it and the oil that ISIS has outside of Libya they're making a lot of money. We didn't take the oil. We should have taken the oil but they let Gadhafi -- why? Would we have been better off if our people didn't do anything? They killed terrorists.So we've got to get smart. We've got to get smart and we've got to get smart fast and we have to start investing money. And we have to get ISIS and we have to get ISIS out. And we have to build our military. We have to build our military which is totally been depleted.And we have to take care of our vets who have been treated worse than illegal immigrants. We have to take care of our vets.Have to take care of our vets. Our greatest people. So here's what's going to happen. Here's what's going to happen. Somebody gave me a hard time on Saddam Hussein. Well, he was a bad man. I know he was a bad man but he controlled that region and frankly he didn't let happen what's happening now. Take a look at Iraq. Turn on your televisions, they're rioting in Iraq.They took over the whole thing. It's a total disaster and you take a look at Libya, you take a look at what's going on. Look at the oil that's pouring out funding wars all over the place and we don't do anything about it. So here's what we're going to do.You're going to remember in five years and 30 years, hopefully in 50 years if you're young enough and healthy enough but you're going to remember this day but more importantly you're going to remember tomorrow. Because tomorrow we got to get out and vote. Tomorrow's so important. Tomorrow's so...A guy like Ted Cruz can never -- he doesn't have the temperament. He doesn't have the temperament believe it or not. A guy like Ted Cruz cannot do it. Kasich can't do it. I call him one in 42. He's won one race in 42. That was Ohio and I would have won if I went there for two more days and campaigned.But they gave me a dirty poll in Florida and I said I better stay in Florida. So I won Florida easily and I should have got to -- frankly -- you know that story. But I should have gone back to Ohio. I would have won. Then I could have said he's oh for 42 or whatever the number is. It keeps increasing every week.But I will promise you one thing. We will be the smart country from now on, not the dummies, OK? Not the dummies because this is a movement that's going on.We have a movement going on the likes of which this country has never seen they say. Time Magazine -- many covers of what's going on with the movement. I'm the messenger. This is the movement, and it's a movement like we've never -- like we've never -- like they've never seen. Bill O'Reilly said the other night that in his lifetime, this is the greatest phenomena -- political phenomena that he's ever seen, what's happened with Trump and us.As soon as Kasich gets the first negative ad -- I told you, 60,000. It's up to now 60,000. As soon as Kasich gets the first negative ad, boom. As soon Cruz gets some negative ads, boom. I was at 60,000 negative ads. I mean, one thing, you know me, folks. Mandy, you know me. But 60,000 -- $100 million of negative ads and I'm beating Hillary in the last polls, and the other ones were tied. But -- but -- and I haven't started.Folks, and I haven't started yet. Don't forget senators, governors, top people, smart people, 17, boom, boom. Walker gone, this one gone, Bush gone -- low energy -- Bush gone, all gone. All gone. Smart people, Dr. Ben Carson who endorsed me. Smart guy, great guy. He endorsed me. Great guy. Chris Christie, great guy. He endorsed me. But all smart people and I -- now, I'm going to start focusing on Hillary. That's going to be so easy, it's going to be so great. It's going to be so great.Bad judgment. Crooked Hillary, remember? Crooked Hillary. Bad judgment. I didn't say it, Ben -- you know, I didn't say it. A lot of people said -- a lot of people brought it to my attention. Ben brought it to my attention, other did. But it was said by Bernie, so I don't -- I can't take any -- can I take heat if Bernie said it? So here's the story. Bernie said bad judgment, and it's true. Look at the email scandal. That's bad judgment. You'd almost say what is the purpose of doing it? It's just her. It's bad, bad judgment. It's also criminal, by the way, and a lot of bad things should happen. But we'll find out. We'll find out. It's a very criminal act. A lot of people have suffered greatly for doing much less.So here's the story. Hopefully tomorrow, everybody here -- and you'll bring 10 people with you, everybody -- we'll go and vote 20. I like that. I like that.And by the way, you think they have the bad seats? Actually, they have the best. You people are better locations and can see better, but they're going to be famous tomorrow because they're behind. You don't...They'll be so famous, they'll be out to Hollywood. But hopefully, you'll be out to vote, and you're going to look back and you're going to say in many years from now, it was the greatest vote that you've ever cast because our country will start winning again. We're going to win with our military. We're going to knock of ISIS. Have to do it. Have to do it. Boom, they're cutting. Have to do it.We're going to win with our vets. We're going to take care of them. We're going to take proper care of our vets. These are our great people.We're going to win with education, Common Core out, bring it local. We're going to win, win, win. We're going to get rid of Obamacare, we're going replace it with something absolutely great and for much less money.We're going to win at the border. We're going to build the wall. The wall will be built.Mexico will pay for the wall 100 percent -- 100 percent. Mexico will pay for the wall. Now, they're accepting it already. Now they're just saying about paying. The other day they said, "Well, maybe the wall gets built." Well, a year ago, they're saying, "We'll never allow one." Now, they sell, "We'll allow, but we'll never pay." I said, "They'll pay. You watch."By the way, remember this, 58 -- $58 billion trade deficit with Mexico, right? The wall is going to cost $10 billion. Anybody that's in business or you don't have to be in business, when you hear those numbers, it's real easy folks. It's real easy. Mexico will pay for the wall. OK, just remember that.And we're going to go from the worst trade deals ever made in the history of the world. We're going to make great trade deals. And we're going to bring our jobs back to Indiana and other places in our country. And we're going to become a dynamic economy again. And we're going to become a great country again.What's it going to be folks? It's going to be America First. Every deal is going to be America First. We want to work with people but it's going to be America First and we will make and I promise, we will make America Great Again.Go out and vote. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you everybody.The press, they don't get it, folks. So I'm listening to FOX on the way over, and I heard Greta, she said, "Yes, there are thousands and thousands of people there," and you know, I don't know if you know it, but we have two other rooms like this outside. You people have the best location. You have the best location.But we love the people in the other two rooms, right? So there are supposed to be 3,000 to 4,000 people in this room, 2,000 and 2,000, in the other two rooms, so we have anywhere from 6,000 to 8,000; they don't even know, and Greta said they have thousands. And Carl Cameron, who's a nice guy, he said, "No, they only have 1,500 people here." Let me tell you, let me tell you, start counting them up, Carl, because you got a lot of people here, Carl.The press is so damned dishonest. They are so unbelievably dishonest. So we have two rooms like this, and I have a guy saying 1,500 people. This is not -- this is thousands and thousands of people. And, by the way, outside they have thousands of people that couldn't get into any of the three rooms. So that's the story. What can I tell you? I like to set it straight, right?I want to thank you all for coming. This has been an amazing experience. I know so many people in Indiana. I think we're really doing well. That doesn't mean you don't go vote. You have to go vote tomorrow. But I think we're really doing well.You know, we've caught Ted Cruz in so many lies. We call him Lyin' Ted. He lies. This guy lies. He's Lyin' Ted. He's Lyin' Ted. Almost worse than the press. Almost. And I don't know if you heard, because the press won't tell you this, but a new poll just came out a few hours ago, the Rasmussen poll, and I'm beating Hillary Clinton, and that's good. That's good. We're beating her.And I haven't even started yet. You know we started with 17 people. And they're all senators and, you know, accomplished people. They're senators, governors. Tremendous people like Dr. Ben Carson, who's a great guy, who really did well, and he endorsed me. He's a great guy. And Chris Christie, great guy, who endorsed me. And a lot of people, a lot of people are endorsing. A lot of people.But Jerry Falwell, Jr., just came in, Jerry Falwell, Jr., from Liberty University endorsed me. So many ministers and pastors. And that's why we're winning the Evangelical vote, and we have been very consistently.We're winning everything. You know, I don't know if you saw, but in New York they did exit polls. We won with women. We won with men.But especially the women made me feel good. The women.We didn't only win with women, we really won with women. So -- and we won with highly educated and less than highly educated and the rich and the poor. And we won with everything. We won -- and then we went to -- so that was in New York, where we got almost every delegate, 95. We got almost all of them.And then we went to five states, great states. We went to Connecticut, right? We went to Maryland. We went to Pennsylvania, Delaware, Rhode Island. We won every single one of them in a landslide, and we won every group. It's been amazing.And now the biggie is going to be Indiana, because if we win in Indiana, it's over with, folks. It's over with. And then we focus on Hillary Clinton. We focus on -- that's right. We then focus on Hillary, and that's going to be fun. But remember, we began with 17. And one by one by one, they went off. A governor, a senator, a senator, a governor. They didn't know what the hell happened. But they went out. So now we're done to two. And they're hanging by their fingernails. You know, they're up there like this. They're hanging. They're hanging.But it's been unbelievable. I've been here a lot. I have many friends here. And they're amazing people. I have met such amazing people. And we've had such incredible crowds. That's why I had to call him. But we had such incredible crowds, right up until the end.Look at this room as an example. Right into the corners of this big room, people. And all over. And all over. Hello, corner.So it's been an incredible experience. We are going to make America great again. It's going to be America First, America First. But we are going to make America -- look at all those hats. Whites, reds. We have everything. But we -- we love -- you know, the truth is, at the Trump rallies, it's the safest place you can be. Because we look out for each other, and we look out for everybody.We had one in Costa Mesa, California, recently, 31,000 people. It was unbelievable. And then you read -- you don't read about that. You read about they had some problems outside. Now, people were burning the American flag. I don't want them burning the American flag.I don't want them burning -- not the people inside. People outside. They're agitators. Many of them are professionals. They're bad people. You don't see that at all. Look. Look at this place. You don't see it. We've gone through days, you don't see it. California was unbelievable. A new poll just came out in California where I think I'm leading 55 to like 20. OK?But I do love that Clinton poll. And the other one had me tied. That was last week. But now we're going up. And by the way, with Hillary Clinton, in a state called Indiana, which we love, that just came out, too. That's a Wall Street Journal, I guess, NBC poll. Trump is leading Hillary 48-41. We're starting to make big time.We're really doing it. And, you know, the only thing that Cruz could say, you know, with his Shakespearean everything, oh. I can't watch. I love these guys todays. They're online. Did you see them? They were all over the news. We want Trump, Lyin' Ted. That's right. Lyin' Ted. He lies like nobody can lie. But Lyin' Ted -- but they were in line, and they had these guys debating, and they were just -- they know. They get it. They said you're lying, you're lying. And so many of the things he said -- you know, he said the other day -- like, Mike Tyson was very nice. He sent on the Internet that I'm supporting Donald Trump. That was it. And I heard all of a sudden I am campaigning with Mike Tyson as my vice president. OK?And Cruz -- and who would you rather have, himself and Carly or Donald Trump and Mike Tyson? Say, where did that come? No, I said, where did it come? First of all, I'm honored that he endorsed me and all, but where did it come from? Then he said, Donald Trump wants to raise your taxes 40 percent. Now, just so you understand, I have a tax policy and we have a tax plan put in, and I'm giving by far the biggest tax reduction of anybody running.By far. Especially for the middle class and especially for business. We're the highest taxed nation in the world. And the fact is that the one criticism of my tax plan is that I'm giving so much. In other words, my plan is much higher. And yet you listen to this lying guy saying Donald Trump wants to raise your taxes 40 percent. These politicians are really bad.You know, I've been in business -- I've never -- I've only done this for nine months, and I think I'm doing a good job. Do you agree? We're doing a good job.But I've done this for nine months. And all my life I've been in business, I've competed against businesspeople and done well. I started off with a $1 million loan. And I built a net worth over $4 billion with the greatest assets, with the greatest assets, very low debt, tremendous cash flow.And I only say it for one reason, because I don't care. I'm saying it braggadocios. I'm saying it, that's the kind of thinking we need in our country. We got to bring our country back. We have to bring our country back.The world is ripping us off, whether it's China or Mexico or Japan or Vietnam now is a new one just killing us. So many -- I could name any country. If you name any country, they're beating us. We don't win anymore, and we're going to start to win, big leagueig league. Big leagueig league.Let me just show you what I do. Let me just show you. So I just had to mention that on the taxes. So I'm giving you the biggest -- and I hear this guy, and I'm saying, oh, would I like to be standing next to him so I could tell the truth. I've never heard -- he also said -- now, you've been watching me for a long time. Repeal and replace Obamacare, right?So Cruz gets up today, Cruz gets up, Lyin' Ted, he goes, Donald Trump loves -- you know, with a big flourish -- I mean, honestly, I don't even think he's a good debater. I've beaten him at every -- according to every single online poll, at every single debate, I've beaten him. And I don't debate. I mean, my whole life is a debate, but I don't debate.But this guy -- so I talk about Obamacare. Every speech, we're going to repeal it, it's a disaster. And replace it with something great. I don't know if you've seen your premiums are going up so much, right? The premiums are going up 25 percent, 35 percent, 45 percent, 55 percent. Your deductibles are so high that you're never going to be able to use it, unless you're like close to death. It's a disaster.So every speech, I say we're going to repeal and replace Obamacare, and I hear this guy Cruz today, Lyin' Ted. He goes, Donald Trump loves Obamacare. He wants to take Obamacare to the next level. He loves it. I'm saying, he's such a liar.And, you know, I was given a little bit of shelter when during one of the debates Marco Rubio called him a liar. You are really a liar. So here's a senator calling a senator liar, so now I feel much better about calling the guy a liar. But I'd never seen a guy like this. I've never seen -- he even said, Donald Trump will not build the wall. He said he's not going to build the wall. Not build the wall? OK? We're going to build the wall.Can you imagine -- no, no, can you imagine -- we're going to build the wall. Don't even worry about it. We'll talk about the wall. Don't even -- and I'll tell you, we're going to build the wall, we're going to stop drugs from pouring in and poisoning our youth and other people. We are building the wall.But I got this guy Cruz, Lyin' Ted, Donald Trump has said he is not going to build the wall. I think he's crazy. I honestly -- I think he's crazy. Lyin' Ted does not have the temperament to be doing this. He's choking like a dog because he's losing so badly. We have to put him away tomorrow, folks. We've got to get out and vote. We've got to get out and vote.We got to get out and vote. So -- thank you, darling. Oh. I love her, too. Ready? So this is very depressing. Happens it all the time. Every place I've gone to, New York state, landslide. But I go to different communities and I say to my statisticians -- not the most exciting job to be a statistician. But they love it, right? It's a job.But I say, give me the statistics on certain areas, Albany, New York, Poughkeepsie, this, that. OK. I go through New York, it's horrible. What's happening? The jobs are down 50 percent. Manufacturing is gone. I mean, it's horrible what's happening in New York state. I go to Pennsylvania. You look at the steel industry. By the way, look at the steel industry here. It's being killed. The steel industry here is being killed. The cold and the -- the coal industry is being killed. Your industries, your manufacturers.So I said, do me a favor. Go up to South Bend. I love South Bend, though. You know why? What school do I love, right?I mean, I have so many friends that love me that'd like to be right now with me in South Bend for a certain reason. Ready? So South Bend reason -- listen to this -- South Bend -- and don't be depressed, because we're going to fix it. And no politician could fix it, because they're all bought and controlled by special interests. Remember that.So, you know, a friend of mine who's very smart, very smart guy, he said to me, you know, Donald, I don't understand. These politicians are really stupid. I said, no, they're not stupid. They're all given so much money for their PACs and for their -- by special interests, by their contributors, by their donors. And some are stupid. Many are stupid, frankly. Many don't know what they're doing. Some of these that negotiate with China and Mexico and all these big countries where we just die with it, with these horrible trade deals, some of them aren't good. You know, they're political hacks.But I'll tell you what. They're not actually stupid. They're making deals because their special interest groups, their lobbyists, their donors tell them that that's what they want. When I see Carrier air conditioning leaving Indiana for Mexico, there's people that want that to happen.And Bobby Knight just called. And Bobby Knight is going to actually be here tomorrow all day. And I'll tell you, Bobby Knight was so cool, because a year ago, before I was going to run -- you know, I announced like 9 or 10 months ago, on June 16th. Big day. Not easy to do this. It takes guts to do this stuff. Believe me, folks. I sort of had a nice life. I had a nice company, nice family. Now I call back, I say, I'll be home in four days.But I'll tell you what. Bobby Knight called a year ago, and he heard I was thinking about running. I never met Bobby Knight. I knew Bobby Knight. Winner, smart, tough. Which is what we need in our country.And Bobby called up. And then -- first I had to make sure it was him, right? You know, so they call back, they do all sorts of things. But Bobby called up, and he said, I hope you're going to run. I said, you know what, coach, I'm thinking about it seriously. It's a big commitment. We've got to make America great again. I watch what's happening. He said, Donald, you got to run.I said, Coach, I'll tell you what. Do me a favor. Give me your number. Let me see what I do. And I'm going to call you. Now, what happens is then a couple of months later I announced I'm running, and I come down, and we're talking about trade, we're talking about the border, we're talking about all these things that would have never brought up -- would have literally -- these things never would have even been brought up if I didn't talk about them. Telling you. They weren't -- in fact, when I talked about illegal immigration, it was like for two weeks I was getting just absolutely killed in the press by the dishonest media, by the media that said we have 1,500 people here tonight when we have 6,000, you know? So dishonest.Carl, don't be ashamed of yourself. But you know what? You know what? I had to do it, and we brought up illegal immigration and we brought up trade, and then you had Paris, and then I started talking about the Muslim problem, which is a problem, whether you like it or you don't. And nobody else talked about it. And we talk about radical Islamic terrorism, and we have a president that doesn't want to use the term, because he doesn't know what the hell he's doing. Or maybe he does know what he's doing. One or the other. Maybe he does know what he's doing. But in so many ways, he doesn't.But so Bobby calls. And I put his number -- and then I'm running. And now all of a sudden, Indiana -- because usually it's late -- but now Indiana is becoming very important. And I say, I say, you know, it's so important in terms of the race. Usually by this time it's over and, you know, it doesn't matter. But this time, you folks belong where you belong. It's called Importantville, right? Importantville. I love it.I have so many friends here. So what happens is we're getting ready to -- thinking about Indiana. Then we have the big victory last week. We have the huge victory in New York. We get every -- I mean, Cruz got almost no votes in New York. He's going to do so -- he would be beaten so badly by Hillary Clinton, he can't win.So these guys do terribly. And then the following week I win all five in a landslide, win them all in a landslide, right? And we're going to win the whole thing. We're going to beat her in a landslide, all right? Going to beat her.So one of my political guys said to me, like two weeks ago, he said, you know, we're going to Indiana, and I've spent a lot of time here over the last two weeks. And they said, we're going to Indiana. I mean, if you could get Bobby Knight, would that be possible? I said, possible? I have his phone number on my desk! I said, what a great idea.So I call him up. And here's how smart he -- he goes, I've been waiting for your call.Can you believe that? And then he said, when can we meet? And he's been so incredible. And he said some things that were really true. He said, for the people of Indiana -- he said Donald Trump is going to be a great president. I will. I mean, I'm going to work so hard to be great for you people. I'm going to work so hard.We're going to bring jobs back. We're not going to let Carrier come in and just go to Mexico. And there's got to be consequences. When people want to lay off 1,400 people, go to Mexico, and then sell their product back to us, have no tax, have no consequence, not going to happen, folks. And that's not only Carrier. That's many of them. Because we're losing our manufacturing. We're losing our country. Between what's happening there, what's happening with China, $500 billion trade deficit with China, $58 billion with Mexico. Trade deficit. A tremendous trade deficit, tremendous, astronomical trade deficit with Japan. Everybody. We have a trade deficit with everybody.You could call out a country and I'll tell you -- and now they want to make a new deal, Transpacific Partnership, which will be as bad as NAFTA or worse, and NAFTA was terrible. And who approved NAFTA? Kasich. Kasich approved NAFTA when he was a congressman, one of the deciding votes.So here's what happens. So Bobby said, and he talked -- I'll tell you what, when he went into that arena and it was a big arena that was incredible, and he went in and people are screaming and they're crying, and they love Bobby. You know, hey, look, he won 900 games. He won three world championships, college championships. Think of it. He won the Olympics. He won the Pan-Am Games. He has the only -- I don't know if you know, I didn't even realize this -- I said, how come it hasn't been broken it? But he has the last undefeated season. And he almost had two in a row. He had one where he lost one game, the one before it.I mean, there's a guy who's a winner. He said, for the people of Indiana, it's an important week, because you can absolutely -- you know, if we win, it's over, and then I can focus...Then I don't have to worry about Lyin' Ted Cruz. And I don't care if he endorses me or doesn't. I couldn't care less. But I don't have to worry about Lyin' Ted Cruz. We don't have to worry about Kasich, who's 1 and 44. And that's his home state. Now, that's because I didn't go that final two days. I stayed in Florida because I wanted to win Florida. And I was given a faulty -- you know, they gave me what's called a dirty poll. Somebody came out with a poll where I was much closer than I thought in Florida, so I stayed there instead of going to Ohio.If I would have spent two more days in Ohio, we would have won. But I didn't. It's OK. But he's 1 for 44, 45, 46 something, including various other places. So I'm saying, here we have 1 for 44.Now, in the popular vote, I'm millions of votes ahead of Cruz. Millions. But you know it's a rigged system. It's totally rigged. This delegate stuff is -- it's dishonest. It's meant for the bosses to be able to keep the special interests happy and the people that give them money so that Mexico and other places where you have big interests, I'll tell you what, this system is so sick.In Louisiana, I win Louisiana. I wasn't supposed to. I went there. I campaigned for three days. Massive speeches. We had an airplane hangar bigger than this room. It was packed. I go, I win Louisiana. I say, oh, that was great. Then, two, three weeks later, they're going over the numbers. It says Trump won Louisiana. And I got like hardly any delegates. I said, wait a minute, I won. What are you talking -- don't forget. It's only been nine months, folks. I'm figuring it out very fast.And I said, that's got to be a crooked system. You mean, I can win and the guy that comes in third place or fourth place ends up getting more delegates than me? What kind of a system? And then you learn -- no, think of it. No, no, it's a dirty system.I'll tell you what I'm proud of. For 40 or 50 years, however long this has been going on with this crazy delegate system, nobody has ever complained. Nobody has ever talked about it. You know, I've always heard delegate, delegate.I only realized -- and then you had in Colorado, where they did a poll, and it showed Trump was going to win the poll, right? And they said, we don't want to go and vote, so let's take the vote away from the people and lets the bosses pick it. And the bosses are always going to pick a senator who's under control and takes all these campaign contributions, who borrows money from Goldman Sachs. You know, Cruz borrowed money from Goldman Sachs and Citibank, $1 million, at a rate that you would be proud to have, folks. Nobody in this room would be able to get that low rate. And he forgot to disclose it on his financial disclosure form. He forgot! He forgot. Lyin' Ted. He said, I forgot.He was -- until 18 months ago, he was a citizen of Canada. He forgot to tell you that. Oh, I didn't know that. Oh. This guy. I mean, give me a break.But Bobby said -- and it was so incredible -- Bobby Knight said to the people at one of the speeches, because he went around with me the other day, he said, it will be so great, because Donald Trump is going to be a great president. And I appreciated him saying -- and the people of Indiana, if they vote for him, they're going to put him over the top and we can focus on Hillary Clinton.It's so good. Nobody could say it like that. Nobody could say it like that. So I appreciate -- Lou Holtz just called in, and Lou Holtz just endorsed us. Right? A really good guy. He just put it out. He put -- it's all over the Internet. But Lou Holtz is a really good guy. So we have -- we have everybody. I mean, we have so many great endorsements.You know what was very important to me? 16,500 Border Patrol people endorsed me last week.They've never done it before. And, of course, Sheriff Joe, you talk about borders. Sheriff Joe from Arizona endorsed me, that stuff, border stuff.But the 16,500 people have never endorsed a presidential candidate before, and they endorsed me. So that was a great honor. Because we need borders. We need to have a country back. We can't have people walking across our borders, and we have to either have a country or we don't have a country. And you can't have a country if you don't have borders.And on top of that, we have drugs pouring across. You know, when I won New Hampshire, that was my first state that I won. And when you win something, you have a special feeling. And I won New Hampshire in a landslide. I wasn't supposed to. Jeb was supposed to. Jeb Bush.He raised $168 million and had a PAC, super PAC, $168 million. He was favored to win New Hampshire. And I won it in a landslide. OK, so what are you going to do? I have a much higher level of energy. What can I say?But, no, Jeb was -- and I wouldn't say that. Because, you know, once the race is over, I love all these people. When you defeat somebody, we're supposed to love them. Never lose. And I wouldn't say it. But the other day he was on television saying bad stuff. Although he did say it was a phenomenon, and he did say he's a gifted politician. I don't understand that. I'm not a gifted -- I think when he said he's a very gifted politician, you know what I think? I think he meant that not as a compliment, actually. Being a politician itself, right, is not so great.But I beat Jeb Bush. And think of this. I spent the least amount of money, he spent the most. I came in first. He came in last or close. Other people have spent far more money than me. And so far, I've spent -- of the major candidates I've spent the least amount of money by far, and I'm number one in a landslide, right? Now -- now...If you look at education, 30 countries, we're last. We're like 30th. We're last. So we're last in education. If you look at cost per pupil, we're first. So we -- and by the way, there is no second, because we spend so much more per pupil that they don't even talk about number two. It's ridiculous.So wouldn't you like -- I mean, think of this. So they have -- and by the way, it's Norway, Denmark, Sweden, China, Japan, the five. We're number 30th, OK? But we're first in terms of spending per pupil. Now -- and that's bad. That's bad. That's real bad.Now, with me, I spent the least and I had the best result. Isn't that what you want for your president, folks?And here's the other thing. I'm self-funding. So I'm not controlled by all these people that control Cruz, that control Hillary, crooked, crooked, Crooked Hillary. You know the other day, they were talking about Crooked Hillary and myself, right? And they said -- they said one of her people and one of Obama's people, and they said, who do you think Hillary wants to run against? And the guy said, let me tell you, the one she doesn't want to run against is Donald Trump. She doesn't know where it's coming.She said a guy like Cruz is cookie-cutter. You know, every year -- it'll make Barry Goldwater look like he had a successful campaign. He said, with Trump, they don't know what's going to happen. They don't know where it's going to come from. And I'm going to win states like New York, good chance, a state which no Republican would ever even campaign in, because they have no chance. You saw what I won by two weeks ago. Landslide. Landslide, against two people. Against two people.And the dishonest media, you know, when they say about like four or five weeks ago, or 10 weeks ago, we'd have -- we'd have like 12 people. And I'd win a state. I win South Carolina. I win Nevada. I win the South. I won Alabama, Arkansas, Kentucky. I won them all. I won them all. I won Missouri. I won them all.Then I won Florida in a landslide. And they'd say, he didn't win 50 percent. I have like 12 people against me. You can't win 50 percent. I mean, if I'm Abraham Lincoln, I can't get 50 percent. I got -- they have 17 people. It's the biggest number of people ever to run that anybody can remember ever. And yet I'll get like 36 and 38 and 42. And I'd have these characters on television who don't have the brains they were born with folks, OK? And they're dishonest, OK? And they're dishonest.But they'll say, you know, I have this victory where I beat everybody by a lot. He did not hit 50 percent. I had 14 people. Even now, I have three people, so we have three people. It's hard to break 50 percent when you have three people. And yet in New York, I got almost 62 percent. Right?In Pennsylvania, in Pennsylvania, I won every single county. Nobody remembers it ever happening before. In Delaware, the same thing. In Maryland. In every one of them, in Connecticut. I won the rich areas, I won Greenwich, Connecticut. I won the poor areas. Nobody has ever seen it before.And yet I'll hear, well, perhaps he should haven't gotten -- actually, they didn't really say that. I must be honest. Even the bad guys said they were landslides. OK, that's -- but they'd always say, always say, when we had all these people running, he didn't get 50 percent, and Jeb would say, uh, he's not a true conservative. Let me tell you. I am a conservative. They would say, they would say that I'm not conservative because of trade. And on -- on trade, in terms of the definition, I believe in free market. But you can only have free market when you have smart people representing you. And we have dummies representing us. We have real dummies. And we have people that are controlled by special interests.So when you have that, you can throw the free trade out the window, folks, because you see what free trade has gotten. You see what globalization, where we go all over the world to lose money with everybody we deal with, because our politicians are corrupt and crooked, and they're totally taken care of by campaign contributions. And by the way, who would know better than me? Do I know the system better than anybody in the world? OK? Anybody in the world.So we have a rigged deal. And here's what's going to happen. So important that tomorrow you get out and you vote. Tomorrow you've got to get out and vote. Because we have a movement going on. Bill O'Reilly from Fox, who's a tough cookie, I always sort of say, man, that was tough, these interviews with him. But I like it. But Bill O'Reilly is tough. He said, in his entire life, his entire life, this is the single biggest political phenomena that he has ever witnessed. You, what's happened, the biggest.The biggest. And then I stand here in these packed halls with thousands and thousands, and I got to listen to Carl Cameron give us a phony count, OK? But think of it. Bill O'Reilly said the single biggest political event -- I think that was the word he used -- event of his lifetime. That's a big statement. That's a big statement. That's a guy who's been around. He's a smart guy. But that's a big statement.But many people have said it. We've been -- and it's us. It's all of us together. I'm a messenger. You're tired of making less money than you did 18 years ago and you're working twice as hard. You're tired of it. I understand it. I understand it.You're tired of seeing Carrier leave your state, go to Mexico, build a plant, put their equipment in, sell it like nothing happened. And by the way, the air conditioners are going to cost the same, because they have to compete with Crane and all the other companies. I buy from all of them. I'm not buying from Carrier anymore, by the way. I'm not buying.But they have to compete with all the other companies. It's going to be the same. They're going to make more. And you know what? What does it do for us? Think of it. What does it do? So I'm a free trader, but free trade isn't working, and we don't have the people that can do free trade because we don't have the smart people.Now they want to do -- you know, NAFTA destroyed our -- destroyed large sections of our country. By the way, you take a look at your manufacturing here. It's way -- I mean, look at the numbers, they're like a disaster. NAFTA has been a disaster, right? Disaster.What it's done to New England, what it's done to New York state, what it's done here, what it's done everywhere. Bill Clinton signed it. Bill Clinton. It was Clinton deal. Bill Clinton signed it. It's been horrible.Now they want to pass Transpacific Partnership, OK? That will be worse than NAFTA, and we're going to stop them from doing it. We're not going to let them continue.You know the document, the document is 6,000 pages long, and I guarantee you every one of those countries that's involved, every single one of them have read every word, every comma, every sentence, every paragraph, and our guys have never even read it. I'll guarantee you that. Six thousand pages, folks. And all it is, is another way for other countries to suck the blood out of the United States, and we're not going to let it happen.And Lyin' Ted Cruz is in favor of it. And Lyin' Ted Cruz thought -- because the single biggest advantage that these companies have is monetary manipulation, where they make it impossible for our companies to compete with them, so our companies end up leaving. It's monetary. It's devaluation of their currency, especially China, which isn't in the TPP, but they will be, because if it works out as well as people think, where they rip us off, China will join later on through the back door. OK? And they're watching it. I guarantee you, they have top people studying that. They're going to come in through the back door in a later date.But Cruz actually was responsible for making sure that there's no language having to do with devaluation, and that's the biggest thing that they do to beat us. And Cruz -- and he won't talk about it, but he's the one responsible. And the senators all know it. I mean, if you look at Jeff Sessions, his all-time most respected senator, the one he most respects, Senator Jeff Sessions, and he talked about him all at the beginning, and Jeff Sessions is from Alabama. He's a fantastic guy. He endorsed Donald Trump. He endorsed Trump. That was a great endorsement.We've had so many. We've had so many. But Jeff Sessions -- but he doesn't want to do anything about Transpacific Partnership. He doesn't want to do anything about the manipulation, about devaluation of currency. And without that, folks, we are going to -- you think NAFTA was bad? This will make NAFTA look like a baby. So we've got to get in there fast. We got to knock it out.And I don't mind making agreements. But we shouldn't make agreements with 12 countries. We should make agreements with one on one, one on one, one on one. And you know what? If they don't treat us right, we pull the agreement.We have this thing, we're all bound up, we got all -- so you got to see the chart. This is a chart from Hell. Nobody even knows -- and I'm telling you, those guys are studying it and we -- nobody from our group has even read the damn agreement, OK? And it's going to be a disaster. And it goes on for many years. I want one on one. If somebody treats us well, we make a trade agreement, and I'll have the best negotiators in the world make a fair agreement. OK? I don't want to be tied up.If Country A does this, and if Country C does that, then Country D will be able to come to -- nobody knows what the hell's going on. And the bad countries, countries that haven't treated us well, benefit because they get the benefit of what the good countries are getting, so everybody is taking advantage. It's a disaster.We go one on one with countries. And if they treat us well, we take care of them. And if they treat us badly, we can't get out of this thing. This is like a spider's web. So just remember it, and Cruz wants it, and so does Kasich, by the way. Cruz wants it. So we're not going to let it happen.OK. So when I came down the escalator with my wife on June 16th, not long ago, and I brought up all of these things, and I really thought at the time it was going to be trade and it was going to be immigration, illegal immigration. And we gave a speech -- and pretty much right at the beginning, we went up from, you know, actually we went from -- they wouldn't poll me because they never thought I was going to run, the press. They never thought I was going to run.So went up right almost from the beginning, and within a few weeks, we were number one, OK? People agreed with what I was saying. And we've been number one ever since. Every single -- we have been number one ever since.And, you know, Cruz, I heard he was a good debater. I think he's a terrible debater. It's good if you want to hear Shakespeare. I mean, I don't want to hear Shakespeare.See, what -- you know, when he debates in high school and college, nobody interrupted him. With me, I interrupted him, and he got all lost and -- what? Nobody ever did this to me before. It's called the real world, right, folks? It's called the real world. So we win every debate. But importantly, right from the beginning, just about, I went to number one. And all these characters back there. Well, now he's reached his ceiling. You know, I started off like at six or five or something. And they said, well, he's got five. And that was higher than most. But he's got five, but now he's plateaued. Oh, OK.Next week, I went to like 11. Well, he's at 11, but that's the highest he'll go. He's got a group of about 11 percent that love him, right? You know this. This has been going on for weeks. Then I get to 14. Then I went to 18. Then I went to 24. And they kept saying, he's plateaued. I know he's plateaued. You know, these morons like Karl Rove -- the guy is a moron. He still thinks -- no, no. No, no, Karl Rove, he still thinks Romney won. Didn't Romney win? I thought Romney won.Romney got wiped out. He should have won that election. That was an election that should have been won. And I backed him. And I backed John McCain, a tough one to win, because the economy crashed. But I backed McCain, he didn't win. I backed Romney, should have won, didn't win. I said this time, we're going to do it ourselves, folks. We're going to win. We're going to win. We're going to win.So a lot of things happened. So I talked about trade. I talked about illegal immigration. Then you had the killing of Kate in San Francisco, shot in the back by somebody that should have never been allowed in this country, and you had Jamiel in California. Jamiel, young boy, father became a great friend of mine. That was in San Francisco. Then his father became in Los Angeles area, California, and he was killed. His father is a great guy. His son was taken from -- an illegal immigrant, shot through the face three or four times for doing nothing.We're going to build a wall. And then you had -- and then you had the incredible veteran, 65-year-old woman raped, sodomized and killed in California, and this is all over the country. And, folks, we're not going to take it anymore. We're not going to take it anymore. We're not taking it anymore.And then polls start coming out where Trump is definitely the best on the border and best on everything, and I mean best on everything, except they didn't like my personality. Who cares about my personality? I think I'm a nicer person than these two. The only thing I didn't do well on was personality. And by the way, the women's vote, women, nobody respects women more than I do, I will tell you that.And -- and women are looking for security in our country. And they know I'm going to do the best job. Look at Hillary with her call. Remember the ad? Who's going to be awake at 3 o'clock in the morning? Well, when they called her on Benghazi, she was sleeping, folks. She was sleeping, OK? She was -- she was sleeping.Who is going to be awake? She wasn't awake. So all of a sudden, the polls start showing great. And we've been doing amazing. But then you had a thing called Paris, where Paris, 130 people killed, hundreds of people laying in the hospital right now, injured so badly their lives are destroyed. You had people that went in and just boom, boom. Toughest gun laws in the world, Paris and France, toughest in the world, boom, boom, boom, just stayed there shooting people, killing people, hurting people, permanently forever. I mean, people are so badly injured, hundreds of them.Then you had in San Bernardino, you had a radicalized couple come out. They worked for people. They were given a baby shower by the same people they killed a short time later, boom, boom. No guns on the other side.Let me tell you, if you had guns on the other side, whether it's Paris or San Bernardino or some of the military people that were killed, we have gun-free zones, would have been a whole different story.It would have been a whole different story, folks. And in fact, it may never have even happened because if these people found out, if they found out that there were guns in the room, they probably wouldn't have even gone there, OK? So it might have been a completely different story.So we'll protect our Second Amendment. And we're going to really protect our Second Amendment, OK?And we're going to take care of it and cherish it, because, you know, they're chipping away -- they're chipping away at the Second Amendment. We're not going to let it happen.When we have $19 trillion, when we have $19 trillion in debt, going to $21 trillion because of that horrible budget that was made four months ago, the omnibus budget, the omnibus -- which, by the way, funds Obamacare, which funds Syrians coming in that we have no idea where they come from, who they are.And they're coming here. Which funds illegal immigration and immigrants -- illegal immigrants coming in, and lots of other things. You know, I always say that Obama is a horrible negotiator, except when it comes to negotiating with the Republicans in Congress. He gets everything he wants.And what happens? And we send these people on. And I'm a fan of the Tea Party, which has been maligned over the years, OK? It's just been maligned.But I'm a fan. We send these people, and they go, and we're going to get rid of Obamacare, we're going to this, we're going to that. Then they get elected, right? They go and they look at these beautiful halls and these beautiful ceilings and the marble and the statues and something happens. They become lost. And he looks at his wife and he goes, Alice, we finally arrived. And then they vote for everything.That's not happening with me. That's not happening with me, folks. Not going to happen.So it's been such an honor. And I'm going to try seeing the other two rooms. Maybe I'll bring Carl Cameron with me. But I'm going to try and stop by. But let me just tell you, it has been such an honor. But hopefully, folks, tomorrow -- and you'll get every friend you have that can vote. Every friend you can have. Everybody, because here's what's going to happen. You're going to remember this evening. Thank you. I love you. I love you.I love you, thank you. Thank you.You got to remember this evening. And we had a good time with a bad subject. The bad subject -- our country is doing terribly. You know, the real job number is 20 percent or more. It's not 5 percent. That was put in to make politicians look good. If you stop looking for a job, you're looking, looking, looking, you stop looking, they consider you statistically employed, OK? And you have millions of people out there that can't get jobs. We're going to bring our jobs back to our country. And we're not going to let people leave so easily anymore.So you're going to remember this night. But more importantly, you're going to remember the vote that you cast tomorrow. And you're going to say, when you look back in five years, in 20 years, in hopefully 50 years, some of the young people -- we have so many young people. I think I have younger people...I think I have younger people than Bernie. By the way, Bernie, Bernie, in all fairness, his system is rigged, also. Only the Republicans rig it in a much more sophisticated way without the super- delegate thing. But Bernie, you know, he wins, he wins, he wins, he wins, and you watch these guys, he can't win.But here's what you do. Here's what you do. You've got to vote. And we got to keep this movement going. We will make America so great. Maybe greater than ever before. If we have to suffer, though, and Cruz will lose in the biggest landslide in history, and Kasich, when he gets hit with a negative ad -- I've had 60,000 -- it was just reported -- 60,000 negative ads. Cruz has had none. Kasich has had none.When they get hit with their first negative ad, they're over. With me, I think we're immune to it, and the ads were wrong. They're totally phony ads. But here's the story, folks. You're going to look back in years from now, and you're going to say it was the single greatest vote you've ever cast. And here's why. Because our country, our country is going to start winning again. We're going to win with their military. It's being depleted. We're going to build up our military, make it stronger, bigger, better than ever before.And we're going to knock the hell out of ISIS, just so you understand. We have no choice. We have no choice.As part of that, we're going to take care of our great veterans. Our veterans have been left behind, very unfair.We're going to win on education. We're getting rid of Common Core. We're bringing education local. We're going to win on education.We're going to repeal Obamacare. And we're going to come up with something that's so much better and less expensive.We're going to save and protect and cherish our Second Amendment.We're going to build the wall. We're going to have Mexico pay for the wall. And we're going to have strong borders. And we're going to have people come into our country, but they're going to come in legally, legally.And we are going to make unbelievably good trade deals. No more stupid deals, where our businesses and our money get sucked out of our country. We're going to make great trade deals, done by the greatest people. We have the greatest negotiators in the world right here in this country, and we're going to use them. We're not going to use political hacks that don't know what they're doing and probably -- who the hell knows -- they're bought off and that's where they're making such bad deals. We're going to make the greatest trade deals.And you're going to look back, and you're going to say, you know what, that's when we started winning again, when Trump took over, and we're going to win. We're going to keep winning. We're going to win so much you're going to beg me, Mr. President, please, please, it's too much winning. We can't take it.And I'm going to say: I don't care. We're going to keep winning, because we're going to make America great again.I love you. Thank you, Indiana. I love you. I love you. Thank you, Indiana. Thank you.They dropped out. And I said, I don't know.So, we called up West Virginia last night, we had 35,000 people. We had -- the place was packed. This one, we have 10,000 or 11,000, and we have people still pouring in. So I said, let me ask you, with West Virginia, was it done? I mean, people like they're expecting to go? Yes. I said then we have to go. I said, what about Nebraska? I love Nebraska, what about Nebraska? Right? And I said is it like, are the people expecting me to be there? They said yes. I said, we're going! We got to go, right? We're going to have a little fun. We're going to have a little fun.Be like Pete said, we have to go on Tuesday and vote, because we're looking to break the all-time record. We passed Eisenhower, we passed Nixon. We passed almost everybody, we're just about ready to pass Ronald Reagan, who we love. We're just about ready to pass -- we just passed everybody and we have a lot of states to go.But we want to create such a record like they haven't had before. So, if you can on Tuesday, takes two minutes, go in, vote. We have more votes than anybody and don't forget I started out with 17 people, and one by one, it was a beautiful thing to watch.So we had a good time. It's been an amazing experience for me. I've never done this before. I've been a politician for ten months, and these guys have been politicians for 30 years in some cases, right? How am I doing? Am I doing a good job?But we have a message. You know, we have the right message. We're tired of being dopes. We're tired of being the stupid people. We're tired of having these leaders, leaders down the drain, that's what they're doing. We're going to have great trade deals.You know, in Nebraska, and I just learned, I said how is it doing business like with Japan? You send business to Japan. You don't send business to China, because China doesn't take your business. We take their business. They don't take our business, right? You know that. Do you know that? They won't take our business.Think of it. They call it a tariff, you know, a tariff. It sounds a little bit better, a tariff, but the whole thing -- we're not going to do this stuff anymore, folks. We're not going to play games anymore. We're going to level it out.And you want to see -- you want to see a trade imbalance? You want to see trade -- look at Japan. Millions of cars come pouring in.You go to Los Angeles, the biggest ships you've ever seen loaded up with cars, right? And you look at what we have. We send beef. Beef is very important, but it's not quite as big a product, do we agree? OK? Do we agree?Sometimes they send it back because they don't want it, because their farmers don't want it, they send it back and then we send it back. It goes back and forth, back and forth and they charge you much more, called it Kobe beef, it's old, it's old. It's old! It's old. Who the hell wants it? And they charge you much more money.But here's the thing, look. There's a 38 percent tariff when you send your product. There's practically no tariff or tax when they send theirs. Tell me, folks, who is making these deals?I can tell you people wouldn't be making that deal on a federal, on a federal level, it's ridiculous. We're being out-dealt, we're being outplayed, and we can't have it anymore.Now, you've been watching all of the elections that have been taking place and really, I mean I really have. I've had, I've gotten to know this country so well, and you know, it started with New Hampshire, where my first victory, I'll always forget that -- I mean there's nothing like it.These beautiful, these beautiful valleys, these beautiful streams, and what's their big problem? Heroin. I said, what do you mean heroin? What are you talking about, heroin? It pours in from the southern border and I said, you know what? If I win --Oh we'll build the wall. Build the wall. Build the wall. You have the same problem. We'll build the wall.He leaves a disgrace. He can't represent the people of South Carolina well. He goes on television -- I've never seen a guy on television knocking me all the time. It's hard to believe I win everything in a landslide.This guy goes on television and talks about "I know more about the military than Trump. I've been dealing with it for years." Yes, for years, that's why we can't beat is, for years they deal for years. We need new thinking.So, he fails with his campaign horribly. He then endorses somebody else, and then he endorses Bush, and then he endorses everybody. He's like bad luck. As soon as he endorses the people, they drop out. And then I see him on television knocking me. You know, we're supposed to be coming together. Paul Ryan, I don't know what happened.I don't know. He called me two, three weeks ago. It was a very nice conversation. He was congratulating me. This was before we had the ultimate victory but he was congratulating me on doing so well. I figured routinely he'd be behind it.And he -- the other day in a big surprise, I've had so many endorsements. I mean, today a lot of them, Bob Dole came in, Dick Cheney came in, many congressmen came in, many senators come in, and we've had tremendous endorsements from a lot of people, both current and people that were here and highly respected people.And you know, Rick Perry, as an example. He came in, and I've always liked him, but he's a tough competitor, and he fought hard, and he was rough on me, right? He got up -- remember he went to Washington and made a speech for half an hour about Donald Trump. He said I'm a cancer on the Republican Party.No, that's the bad news. Let me tell you the good news. So yesterday he endorsed me.And I like him. I do like him. I forgot about the one hour where he went wild. But he said, one of the most talented or brilliant or something candidates ever to run for the presidency in the history of the presidency, so you have that statement and then you have this statement. This is a big difference, that's a big gap. But I appreciate it, and I like Rick Perry, and he's a good man, and I appreciate that he did that.But the one that we're surprised at -- I'm not surprised at the Bush family in all fairness, because I'm very critical of what happened during the term. So I'm not surprised. And Jeb we hit hard. Do we agree? But what people don't say is that he hit me hard. He spent $14 million on negative ads. So, people will say, you weren't nice to the Bush family. The guy spent $14 million in negative ads. I didn't spend anything on negative ads on him.It really -- it really tells you when somebody can spend $14 million on negative ads, it sort of says like do ads have any power? I would go up to New Hampshire before the vote. The best was Florida. They spent I think $28 million on negative ads. They spent thousands and thousands. Do you know the total negative ads, have you seen it on television? Sixty-six thousand negative ads. I want to see Pete get 66,000 negative ads. Pete, you wouldn't be standing. You'd say I'm going home. I'm leaving. I'm going home. Pete, 66,000 negative ads, over $100 million and I'm leading by a lot, it was a landslide. In fact, it's over, so I don't know what it means.But I tell the story, I'm in Florida and I had a tough race against Marco and I like Marco. I like everybody once it's over. I like people, but Marco was very popular in Florida, and is very popular, and I was down and I know Trump National Doral. And they're having the big golf tournament and Adam Scott from Australia, one of the top couple of golfers in the world, phenomenal, long, straight, everything, does everything. He ends up winning with a phenomenal chip shot, almost goes into the water, 18th hole at Doral is the hardest on the PGA tour. It's considered the toughest hole, it averages like 4.8, which is impossible for a par 4, right? So, Adam Scott hits a good drive, hits a shot and goes left, almost goes in the water. He hits this unbelievable chip shot, a flop shot, four or five feet from the pin, sinks the putt, and he wins the tournament. And all week long, I'm watching these horrible negative ads about myself, and we have hundreds of televisions all around green, we have all these televisions, it's called the Cadillac World Championship, it's a big, big tournament, and thousands and thousands -- tens of thousands of people and I said to myself, oh, wait a minute, I forgot about this. I'm supposed to go out on the green, hand the trophy to Adam and all the people there, Tim Fincham, the PGA Tour.I said, wait a minute, what happens if they have negative ads? They said and now Adam Scott but before we get to Adam, we'll have a few commercials, thank you very much. And I said, oh, this is terrible. I said turn the -- told my people, get the televisions turned off! Turn them off but there were hundreds, they were all over the place.Together, and I'll tell you this is something special that's happening folks, it really is, is something special. It's all over like this, we go to Alabama, we had 35,000 people, we'd have as big as the auditorium, look at this big room and look right back to the corners. By the way, you have thousands of people outside. Please, please mister Fire Department let them in, OK. Just let them in. Let them in. We have plenty of exits, right? Besides that, what's going to burn? It's a concrete floor, there is not a lot, right? They're coming in now. You want us to wait about an hour or not? No, let's... The hell with them, right? The hell with them. No, they're coming in as we speak.We had an amazing period of time, you know, we had 18 people all together and when I first started they all said, "These are the most talented, this is the most talented group of people." I remember from Fox, Charles Krauthammer, very average, very average, believed me. He is a very average up here. He was up... No, he is. He thinks he is not average. He was pushing the war on Iraq, "Oh, we got to go in the war, war, more war, war, war, great job." Four trillion dollars later we got nothing, we have nothing. He was pushing it, but Charles Krauthammer remember, before I decided to do this, he said, "We have the finest group of talent ever assembled in the history of Republican politics," right? In the history of Republican politics there has been nothing like this group. There is no reason for Donald Trump to ever enter this race, the talent is extraordinary. You know, but I hear that and what do I know, I don't do this, I've been doing this for nine months, so what the hell do I know?I'm listening to this guy and I've watched him and he makes so many errors and nobody catches him on it, although O'Reilly sometimes does. I'm listening to this guy, so wrong, thinks so much of himself, I think. I actually think maybe he does it, but he's talking about this tremendous talent and I say to my wife, I say, "Wait a minute, I listen to this guy Krauthammer saying it's the finest group of people ever to enter a political race in the history of Republican party," or something to that effect. I said, "What am I doing, why am I doing this? This is talent, why am I doing this?" Then about a month later I said, "All right, I'm going to do it," because I couldn't stand watching the Iran deal, I couldn't stand us getting pushed around by ISIS, I couldn't stand when I look at our military, I couldn't stand looking at the worst trade deals. The dumbest people in the world are making the worst trade deals, and you are a big beneficiary of that stupidity, I have to tell you. I said to myself, "We're going to do it."I stood at the top of the escalator with my wife, I took a deep breath, this is not easy folks. I mean, this is work, especially when I hear all about this talent, and... Thank you man. I thought they were protestors but they are on our side. I always say, friend or foe? Friend or foe? Friend or foe? Well, I love our protestors because the only way we get the cameras to turn around and show how many people, look at these corners? Corner, corner, corner. Wow, this a hell of an impressive group. One thing I'll say, nobody gets the crowds that Trump gets and nobody has more fun than we do, and the subject is not good. Our country is going to hell, but the good news is, we're going to make America greater, greater, greater than ever before. I'm telling you. We're going to make our country greater than ever before. I've gotten to know the people, and believe me, we're going to do something special.Thank you fellas.Anyway, so I come down the escalator I say to my wife, "Come on we have to do it." I didn't want to do it. You know I have this great company, it's an amazing company and some of the greatest assets in the world and I said to myself, "We have to do it." You know, the country has been great to me and I'm putting back, boy, am I putting back, I didn't know I was going to be doing this. Supposed to be taking it easy instead I'm going in reverse. I came down and honestly it was like, "Look at all of them back there, this is like a meeting. Here we are, look at the press, they must think this is an important place, because that's more than average," I'm trying to figure that out.Why does Eugene, Oregon, have more than average? Because it's a great place, I guess. Why? It is a great place. It's beautiful, by the way I have to tell you, the trip in, so beautiful. The fields, the trees, and look at all these strong people out here in the audience. See, years ago, I would have said, "Look at all these strong men," but today if you say that they say, "You're sexist, that's horrible." Hillary Clinton would say, "That was a horrible statement. He said, 'look at these strong men' He should say, 'Look at these strong people." It has gotten so out of control, I have to tell you. It is so out of control. Just a little side note before we do our little escalator trip, just a little side note. I just learned that Crooked Hillary along with her friend, you know she's got this goofy friend named Elizabeth Warren, she is on a Twitter rant. She is a goofus. She is a goofus.You ever see her, I mean this woman she is a basket case. By the way she's done nothing in the United States Senate, she's done nothing. I'd love run against her if I came from Massachusetts. I did great in Massachusetts, I won Massachusetts with almost 50% of the vote. Now, it helped, in all fairness to Tom Brady likes me, that helped, OK. Having him as my friend, but I won the thing by a landslide. I was watching Fox this guy, this horrible guy that said, "Donald Trump..." You know I've been getting 60 and 70%, but we're 18 people and this dope tonight on Fox said, "You know, Donald Trump got 42% of the vote," and I had seven people and eight people and 14 people and 16 people in this contest. Krauthammer says it too, "He hasn't broken 50." Well, by the way, about four weeks ago, I'm breaking 50 like it's clockwork now, OK. Guess what, I'm breaking 60 and we had three people, but you just think about it.I hear that goofy Elizabeth Warren, and I'm serious, this is a woman who has not done anything in the United States Senate, and they say, "Oh, she is a super liberal." You know, her whole career is a fraud because she goes out and she says she is a native American, I won't use the word Indian because they say it's not a nice word to use. I will not say Indian. She is a native American 5% and therefore her whole career, because she was a minority... It's a disgrace what's going on in our country.Goofy Elizabeth Warren, I think that Hillary should run with goofy Elizabeth Warren. I would love to beat them, I would love to beat them. I just said, you know, they're doing the whole... She plays a woman's card. Hillary Clinton plays... It's the only card she has, because honestly, without that card she would get nobody voting for her. Nobody. Every time you see something where like you're very nice but not nice enough to a woman. You have to be very careful. You're very nice but not... "Did you see Donald Trump the way he spoke to her?" I mean, give me a break.I just heard that she's got all of her friends from Wall Street, and by the way, I know her friends better than she does. They will get more done by contributing to her campaign. They've got all their friends from Wall Street, and I don't even think she should be winning because you know the system's rigged. It was rigged for me, the Republican system was actually better because it was less obvious the rigging. I realized, because I'd win like Louisiana, and then I'd find out, "Where are my delegates?" They take them out to dinner and they get them hotel rooms and they take them on a Yacht. All of a sudden I say, "Wait a minute, I want this State, why don't I have as many delegates as the guy who came in fourth?"It happened and I started to learn the system. Then I realized, the only way I was going to win like a boxer, you got to knock them out, that way you don't have to rely on the judges, all right. You got to knock them out. Knock them the hell out. I won with such massive margins, New York I had 62%, I won every single county. Pennsylvania, every single county. We went to Connecticut, every single county. I won with men, I won much more importantly with women big league, I won with Hispanics, with African-Americans, we going to put our country together folks, I'm telling you, and we're going to bring jobs back like you have never seen before.I just learned they have a 90 million-dollar fund where they are going to do negative ads and they're ads about me and ads about women. First of all, nobody respects women more than Donald Trump, I'll tell you. Nobody, nobody. Nobody respects women more. My daughter, Ivanka, always says, "Daddy, nobody respects women more than you, daddy, what are they talking about?" Here is a story folks. They are going to do ads about me and they are going to say, you know, "Take a statement while I'm on Howard Stern and we're getting... Don't forget I was never going to run for office, this just happened like nine, 10 months ago and boy did we beat these people? Am I doing you a good job, right?On one of the shows this morning, they showed the margin of victory, I mean, boom, boom, boom, bomb. Somebody said, "Oh, so why won't he beat Hillary Clinton?" A poll just came in, Rasmussen, which is one of the most respected polls. Guess what folks? I haven't started on crooked Clinton, yet. Guess what? We're leading by two points, OK? We're leading. They are going to do this 90 million-dollar ad campaign, and I said, "You know what, I don't want to play dirty, I'm a very clean fighter." I took these people out and you know, Jeb Bush, as an example, who is a very low key, very low key person, but I want it to be low key because it's nicer than saying, "Low energy." The only reason I'm not nice he said I'm not going to the thing, I'm not... All these guys like these, this guy Lindsey Graham, he knows less about the military than my ten-year-old son, Barron.Barron plays military soldiers, he knows more abut the military. He said, "I've been fighting ISIS for many years, how dare Donald Trump tell me what to do?" If you have him, you'll be fighting ISIS for many more years, believe me. I beat him so badly and all he does... Then he goes out and he endorses one guy, no good, another guy, no good. Then he endorses Jeb Bush like right before he drops out. He goes on Television and he spews hate about me, spews hate. I say, "Wait a minute, that's the guy that I defeated so badly that he went home but he started to cry, OK? He started to cry and now he says, "I won't vote for Donald... I won't endorse him."Now, here is the thing, so they signed a pledge. Remember everybody wanted me to sign a pledge, right? They didn't care about anybody else, because, who the hell cared about everybody else? 24 million people watching the first debate, 23 million people on CNN a couple of weeks later, the largest audience in cable history, the largest audience in the history of CNN. You think that was because of Lindsey Graham, Aah? I don't think so. They are the largest audience in the history of CNN, the largest audience in cable, 24 million, that's like, big stuff, right? That's the way it is.What happens is, we go out, we go through it and that's what's going to happen with Hillary. We are going to have such a victory of her, people don't understand. Women, you know, somebody said, "He is not doing well with women." Well, let me tell you, women wants strength, they want border security, they want a strong military, they don't want a woman that sits at home at 3 o'clock in the morning, and she's sleeping and she doesn't answer the telephone what she didn't... Remember her ad? "I will be there to answer the phone." She was sleeping, she was sleeping. The last thing you need is another Clinton, that whole deal was a disaster. You look at what NAFTA has done to this country, I just left New York, Pennsylvanian, Connecticut, Maryland, I just left States that have been decimated by this bill signed by the "Clintons." Terrible.Anyway, so they are doing 90 million dollars worth of ads and a lot od the ads are me and women saying, having fun with Howard Stern, the Megyn Kelly, who by the way I give her a lot of respect. She called me and she said, "I'd like to see you." Now, if I was wrong she wouldn't have done that, and I respect her for doing it. She called me, she said, "I would like to see." She came to Trump Tower, I didn't go Fox, and we didn't meet on neutral territory. Megyn called me, I really do, I have a lot of respect for this. She called me, we sat down, we talked, everything's fine. I mean everything is fine. This isn't a woman that I... I said nothing wrong, because I never finished my statement. Remember I said like, blood coming out of her eyes, blood coming out of her, wherever.I was talking of ears or a nose, everybody said, "Oh, that's terrible, what he said." I didn't say anything, I never even finished... You know why I didn't finish the sentence? Because I love what I'm doing so much and I didn't want to waste any more time, who cares? When I didn't finish the sentence they all figured coming from some place else, and because they have all dirty minds, I never even thought about it. That was not what I was... I was thinking of ears or nose, but that's it. Megyn came up and we had a great talk and that was it. I will do her show, in fact, I've done her show, and I loved it other than I didn't like the way I looked. It was the worst I've ever looked on television. Maybe she set me up, maybe she set... It's the worst I've ever looked on television. To me the look is important. The look is important. Don King, the big boxing promoter, he would say, "You have the look," the look. I mean, the look's important, now we're not supposed to say that but the look is important, OK?You know, there are other people that could say the same words as I'm saying and it's not going to work too well. Look at these some of these people here, the look, sometimes a look... Let me just tell you, so what they're doing, just remember this, what they're doing is 90 million dollars of ads on Donald Trump and it has to do a lot with the women's issue, right? I'm saying to myself, "But nobody in this country and maybe in the history of the country politically was worse than Bill Clinton with women. He was a disaster. He was a disaster. I mean, there's never been anybody like this, and she was a total enabler. She would go after these women and destroy their lives. Have you ever read what Hillary Clinton did to the women that Bill Clinton had affairs with? Are they going after me with women? Give me a break folks. Give me a break.I see her all the time she's saying, "Donald Trump, oh, he said something, it was a little bit off with a woman. Can't do that." Or, "He was on Howard Stern Show and they were..." Again, remember this, if I ever thought I was going to run for office, I wouldn't have done Howard Show, I would have talked a little bit differently, we wouldn't have had fun. I would have said, "Howard, we cannot discuss this subject, I someday, in 20 years will run for president and therefore..." They take clips of a 15-year-olds or a five-years-old. Honestly folks, I never thought I'll be doing this. Just think of it, Bill Clinton was the worst in history and I have to listen to her talking about it? Just remember this, she was an unbelievably nasty, mean enabler and what she did to a lot of those women is disgraceful. Put that in her bonnet and let's see what happens, OK? With the 90 million dollars in ads. 90 million!I just went through a smaller run in Indiana, they spent 9 million dollars on me, hitting me with ads that were horrible, mostly untrue. Some were a little true, but mostly untrue, I have to say mostly. You know, a couple of times they got me, I said, "I think..." I don't even mind. When they get me, I don't mind. It's like when these dishonest people back here, the world's most dishonest people, the media. Now look at all of them, look at all of them. They protect Hillary Clinton, you know what? They protect her. They're totally protective of her. They are the world's most dishonest people, I'd use much stronger language but there is too many great women in the room, but look at these people, and look at all those cameras going. They are horrible people, they never show the size of the audience, unless we have a heckler, in which case they do because they think it's a bad thing, right?I love our hecklers, I usually like them in the corners up in the corners, some place, because then the cameras... You know, I went four major speeches before we had a heckler, and I said, "Did you see how many people were there?" This is when I first started, 10 months ago. My wife would say, "No, they never showed." They just show my face, they don't want to show the people. We had in West Virginia the other day, a crowd you wouldn't... like 35,000 people. Most of them couldn't get into this massive, massive place, and I said to my wife, "Did you see that crowd?" "No, I didn't." I say, "Why not?" "No, hecklers. All those people no hecklers." Hillary had hecklers yesterday, did you see it? And these were meek and mild heck... These are really weak and pathetic hecklers, but they were, I think they were from Bernie. I think they came.These were meek, mild hecklers and they threw it rough. You know how long the speech lasted? Lasted 11... Think of this, 11 to 13 minutes. Me, we powered through it, right? We powered through it. The truth is we don't have that many hecklers, we don't have that many, but I love my hecklers because it's the only way... I went like four things, then we had this guy, he had a voice like Pavarotti, screaming and screaming and he was nasty. Don't worry about that person, that person's all right. Don't worry.Oregon lost three fourths of its timber mills since 1980. Is that possible? Three fourth? That's a lot of timber mills, right? Rural Oregon has been devastated by souring poverty, joblessness and hopelessness, other than that you're doing great, right? That's a bad statement. Timber jobs have been cut in half since 1990. We're going to bring them up folks, we're going to it really right, we're going to bring them up, OK? The number of people on food stamps in Eugene, Oregon has tripled since the year 2000. By the way, this is like this all over.If you look at New England, if you look at Upstate New York, if you look at Pennsylvania, you look at Maryland and Connecticut, it's destroyed these places and you've had your problems. I mean you've had your problems. The number of people on food stamps, I mean think of it. Manufacturing has also seen a steep decline, manufacturing employment in Eugene, Oregon has declined nearly 40% since 2001. That happened to be the year that China, our friends from China. By the way, I don't dislike China, I make a lot of money with China. I have the largest bank in the world as a tenant in one of my buildings in Manhattan, I sell condos like crazy. I wanted a big battle with China, you know I own the Bank of America building with the group and I own a big building in Manhattan, one of the biggest buildings in Manhattan.100% right. I never thought you'd guess that one. Let's see, Hillary Clinton... You know I just left West Virginia where she said, "We're gonna put the miners out of business, and we're going to put the mines out of business." No, no, think of it. Then she goes to West Virginia and she tried to say, well she really didn't mean that. You know, she said that in a different part. Where was it? These are politicians, all talk no action, it's like that goofy Elizabeth Warren, all talk no action. She hasn't done anything at the United States Senate, and I'll tell you what, politicians, we have to get rid of it. These are politicians, all talk no action.Ready, Clinton as Secretary of State allowed China to come into this thing and knock the hell out of us, folks. Do we have a protestor? Halo? Hey, get the hell out of here. Get him out of here. Get him out. Get him out. Get him out of here! Go home to mummy! Go home to mummy!USA, USA!Listen to this, our trade deficit with China increased nearly 40% during the Clinton tenure as Secretary of State. She gave away our country now she wants to run for president, she will be a total disaster, believe me. Get him out, get out of here. Get him out. Look at the cameras, they are all showing how many people are here, look at those people. Look at those people. Look at those dishonest camera people. I love it, thank you very much for doing that, sir. Sir, thank you very much. You know, I'll tell you, it took a while to figure this out there but I've had all kinds of hecklers. We had one that had a voice, I'm telling you, he sounded like Luciano Pavarotti, his voice. I could take the guy other than he was a bomb, I could take this guy and make him an opera star.OK, the next day I had a heckler and I said, "I gotta do this differently," so I said, "Just nice and easy, don't hurt him, please. Could you remove him please quietly but don't hurt him." Then the next day in the press they said, "Donald Trump isn't strong like he used to be. He used to be strong and he's become a weak person." These people are the worst. They are the most dishonest. Let me just tell you, let me just tell you folks. You look at this room, we have a movement going on like has never been seen in this country. Never. I will tell you, I am nothing more than the messenger, I'm a good messenger, am I doing a good job as your messenger?I am nothing more than a messenger, we have people that are great people... I love you too darling. We have people that haven't had a wage increase in 18 years, they're making effectively less money today than they made 18 and 20 years ago, and then people say, "Are they angry?" We're not angry people, I'm not an angry person. I'm not angry, you're not angry, but we're angry about the way our government has taken advantage of us and we're angry at the stupidity and the incompetence of our leaders in this country because other countries are running away with our country, with our jobs, with our money, and it's like taking candy from a baby and that's the way we are and we are going to change and we're going to change rapidly, believe me. Believe me. We're going to change. I just wanted to tell you that I had one of the great weeks because I didn't know... You know, OK, I have to tell you the story.As you know in one week, by the way, from Tuesday. Tuesday comes and the next Tuesday, you've got to go out and vote, OK? The more people, the better because it is a movement. You know, Bill O'Reilly said something that I was, because he's a tough guy, he's a very smart guy. He said in his life, this is the single, biggest most incredible political event that he has ever witnesses, what's happened to his Trump. Pretty good, and others have said it too. He said it's the greatest phenomenal that he's seen in his lifetime. Made a pretty good statement, and when he tells me that I said, "Thanks." Actually I thought it might happen so I'm not as impressed as other people, but many people have said it. You go look at Time Magazine, I'm on the cover so much and it's not me, it's what's happening, because we go to other States, in Indiana you had to see the crowds.I was winning all these States, I was winning them one after another, after another, I was killing everybody, I was winning by massive amounts. I was getting 62 and 65, and don't forget, there is three people. You know, we were down to three people. I'm telling you, this bad guy, this bad, I won't even tell his name because nobody knows who he is, but he just said that Donald Trump, for the past races had for a long time ago, when we had 12 people, 14 people, 16 people and he was saying I had 40%, and I said, "But there was 16 people, how do you get more?" I think actually the 40% with 16 people is better than 67%, which I had at a couple of, with three people, OK. I really believe that, but they don't mention that, and my surrogates don't mention. They sit there and they don't do anything.Here's what happens folks, we're going to do things because of this movement, we're going to do things like has never been done. We're going to make America great again, we are going to bring back our jobs and I have to tell you, in Indiana when I went there, so I had all these victories, New York and all these other places over a period of weeks. Just really big victories. I mean, these were serious, I was winning everything, but I had the Firewall, the one I couldn't win, which by the way, I won with evangelicals, which are great, that's great. I won with evangelicals, I won with everything, but I went to Indiana and I was going to be the Firewall for one of the candidates, I won't mention because, you know what? He's out.Do you notice... No, no, no, that's not nice. No, no. Do you notice when they are out how nice I am to people? Unless I see them bashing me on television after there then we go after them, right? That particular person is not... No, Jeb Bush bashed me. I mean, he is a low energy guy that bashed me, and he signed a pledge. He signed a pledge that he endorses Trump. Everybody signed the pledge and I'm the one that they wanted to sign it, so I said, "Look, it's good for the Republican party, I'll sign the pledge." I'm the one that's honoring the pledge. I'm the one.I have to tell you, Rick Perry of Texas, he left a while ago, he said horrible things about me, right? Yesterday he came out and endorsed me, and he said the nicest things. He said horrible, horrible things but he endorsed me yesterday and he said the nicest... He said, "Effectively, he's one of the most talented people ever to run for the office of presidency." I mean, that's a big difference. Something like that. Actually, I think he even said better than that but you know, I want to keep it down to a minimum, right, but he was good, and he is a good guy.I have had more people calling me, who have said the worst things about me over the last six moths on television and two days ago I get a call from this person, guy and he said, "Mr. Trump I'd love to join the train." He said join the train. I wouldn't use that expression, although it's a pretty good expression. He said, "I would love to join the train." I said, "How do you do that?" The Trump Train. I said, "Let me ask you a question, how do you do that? How do you join the Train? You said such bad stuff, I mean, how do you pivot out of that?" He said, he is a politician, he said, "Mr. Trump there'll be absolutely no problem, I want to just join, I think it's great." I said, "Only politicians can do this. Only politicians can do this." We have so many people that have joined up, did you see yesterday? A congressman, senators, big people, Dick Cheney joined today. I mean that was impressive.You know what's really important? What really is important are the people, that's really important. I did a couple of shows today and I was asked that question, "How important is it?" I want it to be a unified party but the real unification is not some guy that doesn't want to endorse or who doesn't have his heart on an endorsement. My attitude is, and I want him... I mean, the pledge is signed by the people that ran for president. Every single one of them signed it. I don't even want to... If somebody doesn't want to endorse, I don't want their endorsement, it's OK, I'm going to release them, I release them from their... They are not into fault, I will not have them into fault, I release them. If you think about it, I don't want it that way, but the most important people and they said to me, "Well, how important is it for unification?" I said, "The only important thing is the unification of the people, because the other people don't mean anything."We have had more people voting in the Primaries this year than ever before in the history of the Republican party, right? You know the story, when you look at Fox, they had the first debate, 24 million people, the largest audience in the history of cable television, and that's because of me folks, I hate to say that, I don't want to be bragging. They are going to kill me, they are going to say, "Oh, he brags." What would they have had, like two million people? They had 24 million people, then, you know they wanted to renew me on the Apprentice, and I said, "No, I'm running for president."They came up to my office, "Renew." I said, "We're running for president. We're going to do something..." and I said to the top, top people at Comcast, Steve Burke, one of the greatest guys, great executive, and the heads of NBC, I said, "No, you don't understand, I'm totally serious. I want to do something, I want to do it great." "You can't do that, you know because of what's called equal time laws, so you can't do it. Here is the story, CNN the next couple of weeks, CNN then got 23 million people, the largest audience in the history of CNN over a debate.They used to be like further, when nobody wanted it. The FCC used to make the network take it because nobody wanted to watch a debate. Now it's like watching a Super Bowl, now it's like watching big stuff, and it's fun and I love debating. I didn't know if I could debate, I never did it professionally. That's all these politicians do, is debate but they can't do anything else. Every single poll, which is great, it makes me feel good, because I'm representing you. Every single online poll that measured the performance of people in the debate, I won every single poll of every single debate. A lot of that is because our message is better.What we're going to do is on Tuesday, you've got to go out there in a week, not this Tuesday, the following Tuesday. You've got to go out there and vote, because the biggest mandate, the best mandate we can have is lots of people. Now, with that being said, so in the history of the Republican party, I've gotten, you've gotten more votes than anybody, and we haven't even come close to the end. We have California, we have New Jersey, we have all these places. We have yourselves, but we will have by millions of votes when it's all over. The largest number of votes, bigger than Ronald Reagan, bigger than Dwight Eisenhower, bigger than Richard Nixon by millions, by millions. The so-called leaders of the Republican party don't get it, they don't know what's happening, because they don't understand what's happening.Now, I'm a conservative person, remember this, it is named the Republican party, but I'm a conservative person, but some people will say I'm not that conservative on trade. I believe in free trade, which everybody likes, but we've been taken advantage of by globalization because we have leaders that are incompetent, they don't know how to do deals, or they're controlled by the people that gave them the money, that's probably more likely, all right? I self-funded my entire deal here and I'll tell you what, I'll tell what? You look at Hillary Clinton, you look at the people that are putting up the money, folks, nothing's going to happen with our country, except we're going down, believe me. She will be a tool, she's going to be a tool for Wall Street and everybody else, and you watch 100%.Now, I'm no fan of Bernie Sanders, but he is 100% right on that. He is 100% right. Hillary Clinton is totally controlled by the people that put up her money, she is totally controlled by Wall Street and her system is rigged. Do you ever see, Sanders wins, Sanders wins, Sanders wins, Sanders wins, then they sit down and they say, "Oh, well he can't win," and I say, "Wait a minute, he's winning all the time." They have super delegates, right? Super delegates, given by the bosses, and they gave her so many more super delegates that I guess you can't lose. In a certain way I don't want her to lose because I really want to run against her, I have to tell you. I really want to run.The last person she wants to run against is Donald Trump, believe me, believe me, because my attitude is, "I don't care." I don't care. If we're not going to do it right, I don't care. I'll go and I'll live it out, and I'll build buildings and I'll have some fun and I'll kick the bucket that will be the end, I'll be just fine. You understand. I don't care. We're going to do it right folks, we're going to do it right. Just like we've done here, they said, one of these pundit said the other day, "Well, I don't know how Donald Trump will do about Hillary." Then they said, "Wait a minute, he went 17 people, senators all top people. Senators, governors, knocked them off like on a weekly basis," right? "Boom," and I knocked them off, they didn't fall off, I knocked them off.That's why there is some bad feeling, but I understand that, it'll take them a couple of days to recover, but look, knocked the off. They said, "If he knocked off 17 people, highly distinguished, big senators, big governors, why isn't he going to beat Hillary?" I asked that same question, also, I asked that same question also. We're going to have great success, the polls are already showing it, they hate to say that, but the polls are already showing it. We're going to have fantastic success. Here is what we're going to do, when these companies want to leave our country and they want to move to Mexico, there are going to be consequences, OK? There are going to be consequences.That's a year ago. I said, "Well, Bobby..." and I hadn't decided, this was before June 16th when I came down the escalator, right? I hadn't decided. I said, "Bobby, I have not decided yet, it's a big commitment, it's really a big commitment but let me think about it." All of a sudden, long behold Indiana turned out to be such a big State. A great State, by the way, great people. I said, "Let me ask you, I'm getting ready to go to Indiana, I'm like 14 or 15 points down. Can you believe it? I'm down, and they were going to say, that's my Firewall, you know they will say, "That's the Firewall, they aren't going to win," blah, blah, blah.I went two weeks early, made a couple of speeches, had massive crowds and I said to my people, "This doesn't look like a guy who's in second place." We had a one crowd, 17,000 people. I said, "The guy in second place doesn't have 17,000 people." I gave two speeches and I left. Two weeks, left, but it was good. You know, you go there, you don't go cold, you go. I went, gave two speeches, left and now my poll was like even. Then I went four days before and I worked hard and Bobby Knight was with me. Bobby Knight was so unbelievable.Here's what happens, for five years our country, these thieves in Washington, these people that don't have it, all talk, no action politicians. They've been talking about policy, how to keep countries, they want to give low income loans and low interest loans, it's not going to work. They actually gave a couple of loans, low interest and companies left, so they took the money with them.We don't need that. All you have to do is very simple, folks, if you want to leave to Mexico, enjoy the warm weather, but you want to leave to Mexico, here is what's going to happen, every single time you build an... We're going to build that wall, don't worry. Every single... We got a couple of guys there wall crazy. Don't worry we're going to get it built. Every single time you sell a unit across the border, which now is a strong border, every single time, you're going to have a tax of 35%. You know what's going to happen? Folks, you know what's going to happen, they are not leaving. They may go to another State and on that I say, you got to go and compete, but we're not letting these countries take our business anymore. We're not letting these countries take our jobs anymore and take our money anymore.We have China, we have a trade deficit with China, 505 billion dollars, one year. Not going to happen folks. We're going to balance it off, not going to happen. Japan what they do, I just left a really great place, Nebraska and they sell beef and it goes to Japan. I was saying, "So what's the problem?" They say, "Well, they put a tariff," meaning, tax. You know they like to use the word tariff, it sounds softer. They put a tariff on the beef going into Japan of 38%! 38%, nobody knows that. You know, we're supposed to have free trade. Well, if we have free trade, how come their cars come in by the millions, much bigger. By the way you talk about balance? They are up here, we're down on the floor, in terms of balance. They sell the cars by the millions, they pour in, in Los Angeles, you see those docks. The biggest ships I've ever seen, they're pouring off, looks like NASCAR coming off the track.They are pouring and we're selling beef and they're charging us a tariff of 38% and we charge them practically nothing for the cars, OK? Because our leaders are stupid, folks and because our leaders are totally controlled and we're going to change it all around and it's going to change fast. It's going to change fast. Here is a story. We don't... Well, thank you.Thank you. So many young people, so many young incredible people. Incredible. Beautiful. Beautiful looking young people. We want them when they get out of high school, when they get out of college, we want them to have jobs, folks, we don't have any jobs. We're going to have jobs. What's going to happen is very simple, is what I said was going to happen. When I came down that escalator and I really covered two subjects; trade, where we're being ripped-off by everybody, that's going to be easy and I talked about illegal immigration, it's taking over the country.People are pouring in here, we just got, and I just got the endorsement of 16,500 border patrol people. The agents, they'd never done that in a presidential race before. Sheriff Joe Arpaio, the toughest guy, from Arizona, he endorsed me. Nobody tougher at the border, because they know I'm going to have a real border. I don't mean dirty stuff, I mean we're just going to have a border. You don't have a border, you don't have a country, and I want people to come in but they've got to come in legally. They have to come into our country legally.All of those things are going to happen, the wall is going to be build and Mexico is going to be paying for the wall. Let me tell you, when I was debating these various people on the stage, they come over to me and earlier on they came up, "Donald, you know you can't build a wall." "I can't build a wall?!" China, 13,000 miles, we need 1,000, OK. 13,00 miles, we need 1,000. I say, "Very easy, believe me." They don't know anything about building, they have never build it because they wouldn't know where to start. Number one, then they came up at the end they said, "Donald, I mean you'll never get Mexico to pay," the politicians. They can't do... All talk, folks.Look, they say, "You can't get Mexico to pay." Of course, I can, 100%. Listen, think of this, the wall is going to cost 10 billion dollars, and we lose in terms of trade 58 billion dollars a year. Now, you don't have to go to Wharton, you don't have to go the Harvard, you don't have to go to any place, you don't have to go to high school to know that's an easy one, OK? They'll pay the wall. Now, anywhere five or six different ways, I'm not going to tell you which way, whichever one's easy is the one. That's one of the easy deals I will ever make, believe me. We're going to have that.Here is a story folks, we don't win anymore, you've got to go and vote in a week from now or a week from Tuesday, you've got to go and vote, and most importantly, and that's important. Most importantly in November, we're going to carry your state, and some people say it's inclined towards the Democrats and then I walk in they said, "Mr. Trump..." and I talk to people, like someone was saying, "Mr. Trump I have to be honest, you've got something going on that we've never seen before. You will win this date. You're going to win this day," but you got to go and vote. We're going to win.Now, you know I wasn't supposed to be here, and the same thing happened in West Virginia. After I won I didn't have to come anymore because it's obvious I got no competition. Here is what happened, I said it the other day, I said, "Wow, does that mean I don't have to go to all the different places?" They said, "You don't have to go anymore, so we'll cancel all the trips." I said, "Well, let me ask you, did we make any specific deals like you know, for the arenas and people are thinking about coming?" "Well, yes we did in Oregon, and we did in certain other places." I said, "So let me ask you, like you think I could stay home from Oregon or has it been made?" They said, "It's been made, but we can cancel Mr. Trump," I said, "There is no way we're canceling it, those people want to come, there is no way we're canceling."We're going to terminate it, it's a hurried show. Your deductibles are so high you can never use it unless you're close to death, right? Here is a story folks, we're going to start winning again. You're going to cast the that vote in a week and then you're going to cast that big vote in November, and you're going to look back and you're going to say they're the greatest votes you've ever cast in your entire life. In five years, in 20 years, hopefully in 50 years for all these young people, you're going to remember this vote and you're going to say it's the greatest single vote you've ever cast. When I take over as president, we started using this, we started using our brain, we started winning again. We started winning again.We started winning with our military, which we have to rebuild, we have to, it's weak, it's really, really been decimated, it's in horrible shape. General Odierno left and I watched him on television when he was leaving. He said it's perhaps the weakest in terms of readiness, that he's ever seen it in his career and maybe ever. I said, "Ever! Ever! For a man to say that... I must be honest, I don't want my generals going on television, OK? I don't want them going on television and explaining these things to the enemy, OK? I don't need to have the enemy hear those statements, all right? We want to be unpredictable, folks, we want to be unpredictable. We don't need to have our generals on television talking about how weak our military is. We don't need that, but we're going to build it up, it's the single cheapest thing that we can do.You're going to see things happen and we're going to start winning again, and we're going to win, win, win, and you're going to call me and you're going to beg me, "Mr. President, we're winning too much, we can't stand hearing Eugene, Oregon. We can't stand it. I'm going to say, "I don't care, we're going to keep winning, we're going to make our country great again, we're going to make America great again, America First, I love you, go out and vote, we'll be back soon, thank you. I love you Thank you everybody. Thank you. Thank you.But you know Bernie Sanders said that Hillary Clinton is not qualified and he basically said it because she has bad judgment and she really does have bad judgment.You know, they're Bernie Sanders supporters. But I'm hearing that we're gonna get about 40 percent of Bernie Sanders support, because he's not gonna win. The system is rigged against Bernie Sanders. So he can't win. But I'm hearing we're gonna get close to 40 percent of his supporters. Maybe not these people though.All right. Get him out of here. Get him out. Get him out of here. Get out.He can't get a date so he's doing this instead. Come on. We have to give a hand to the police in this country. Give em a hand. We love our police. We give 'em a hand.I don't know about them, but a lot of the Bernie Sanders people have said they're voting for Trump because what they're doing to Bernie Sanders, you know the system is totally rigged. And what, what they're doing to -- you know, every night he wins, he wins, he wins, he wins, then they sit around the table, those people, the world's most dishonest people. They sit around. They say, well he can't win. And you say, well, why is he winning but he can't win? And they know it. And we're gonna get tremendous numbers of Bernie Sanders.And here's what he's saying. He's saying, and he's saying the system is rigged -- he's copying my language, cuz I used say our system was rigged. Except, when you win by landslides every single state, no matter how they do it. It's like a boxer. You knock 'em out. No matter how they do it, it doesn't matter.Boy did we win, did we win. Thank you, thank you. Are they all out of here? Troublemakers. They're troublemakers. So, ISo, I looked, you know, Hillary Clinton has somebody -- did you ever hear of Pocahontas, huh? It's Pocahontas, Elizabeth Warren, she is going out, she's probably the senator that's doing just about the least in the United States Senate.She's a total failure. She said she was an Indian. She said because her cheek bones were high she was an Indian, that she was Native American and, you know, we have these surrogates people like her, total failures. And I'll tell you what, our country is getting wise to what's happening, folks. We're getting wise to what's happening.It's a big scam and we're all being scammed together and we're not going to take it anymore, OK? We're not going to take it anymore. Pocahontas!And she's got others. Let me tell you. If this group ever gets into the white house again, we will not have a country. We will not have a country. You heard some things a little while ago. I sent somebody up, Stephen. Did Stephen do a good job? I think so. And I didn't want to go through the whole list.Hillary Clinton will be so bad for our economy, so bad for jobs. She's going to be so bad for the Second Amendment. We are going to save our Second Amendment. She wants to abolish your Second Amendment, believe me. She wants to take your guns away. And she wants to abolish your Second Amendment. So, what we're going to do. By the way, the NRA, did you see last week, they endorsed Donald Trump? The earliest endorsement in the history of the NRA. Very importanty, the first time anyone's been endorsed, I think, but the first time anyone's been endorsed prior to a convention.We haven't even had the convention yet. And by the way, I hope you're all gonna be there from New Mexico. It's going to be amazing. It's going to be amazing.Now, I don't know for a fact that Hillary's gonna be allowed to run. She's got a thing called an FBI investigation. I don't know that she's gonna be able to run. I sort of hope she is. But it's not fair that she is.Don't worry about 'em folks. Their voice is very week. I can't hear them. You know it is cute though.We have one left before we turn our country before we turn our country into something really, really special. Because right now, we're suffering. And we're not going to suffer anymore. We're suffering at the hands of stupidity and incompetence. And we're gonna let it happen anymore.I see this low life tonight, I see this low life. She puts on an ad, did you know that Donald Trump was rooting against housing, because he wants housing to go down because he wanted to buy and they have some clip of me from many years ago where I'm saying, "Yes, if it goes down I'm going to buy. I'm a businessman. That's what I'm supposed to do. That's what I'm supposed to do."And then we come home to Laguardia, which is like a third world airport. We come home to Kennedy. We come home to LAX and Newark. We come home to these airports. They look like -- like -- I better not say it because I'll get in trouble. OK. I better not say it.Oh, thank you. Thank you. I appreciate you saying say it. No, no. No. I've learned -- I've learned don't even joke a little bit. Don't even joke a little bit.You know, Ed Rendell, OK -- he was the mayor of Philadelphia. He's a big, big Hillary Clinton supporter. OK.But Ed Rendell, one of Hillary Clinton's biggest supporters, said that half the women in the United States -- something to this effect -- half the women in the United States are ugly. Nobody even talks about it. Nobody talks about it. Can you imagine if I made that statement? It would be the electric chair!And I don't believe that, either, by the way. But he made that statement, and I said, Oh -- he said -- you don't even hear about it. You don't even hear about it. I mean, he was a big wheel, and now he's big in the Hillary Clinton campaign, and you don't even hear about it because there's a double standard.If you're a Republican, if you're a conservative, it's a total double standard from the sleaze back there, I'm telling you, a total double standard. So when my friends in the front are screaming, Say it, Mr. Trump, say it, say it, they just want to get me in trouble.Come on! What's wrong with you people in Albuquerque? You're not going to take that. I have to say, it's a federal problem. I'm not blaming -- I'm blaming the federal government because they allow all sorts of things between devaluations that shouldn't be allowed with China -- and we have such power over China. You know, they have -- I love China. I love everybody, OK? I love everybody.I'm not angry -- just so you understand, I'm not angry at the Chinese leadership. I'm not angry at Mexico's leadership for ripping us off. You know, we have a trade deficit, $58 billion with -- I'm not angry at that.I'm angry at our leaders for being so stupid to allow it to happen!Hillary Clinton supported NAFTA and has repeatedly praised the Transpacific Partnership, TPP. It's a disaster! It's going to be worse than NAFTA. OK, since 2000, the number of unemployed people in Albuquerque has nearly doubled. Come on, folks. What's with it, what's wrong?Your fault? Is it your fault or is it your government's fault? It's your government's fault. Since 2000, the number of people on food stamps in New Mexico has tripled. We have to get your governor to get going. She's got to do a better job, OK? Your governor has got to do a better job. She's not doing the job.Hey, maybe I'll run for governor of New Mexico. I'll get this place going!She's not doing her job. We got to get her moving. Come on, let's go, Governor. Since 2000, the median household income in New Mexico has declined by $2,000. Now, think of that. Think of that, $2,000. So you're working harder today, OK, you're working harder today than you worked probably ever.And these numbers aren't -- you know, they're very consistent. I went through New York and Pennsylvania and all these places, and I was -- I didn't even -- by the time I got finished, I didn't even need him to give me the numbers because they were all a disaster, every state down 45 percent, manufacturing jobs gone. Everything gone.It's really a very sad -- you know, we kid, we have fun, we're having a good time and all that. It's amazing that we can have a good time when the subject matter is so bad, OK? And then you hear a 5 percent unemployment rate except that -- if you -- it's such a phony number. That number was put in for presidents and for politicians so that they look good to the people because you have millions and millions of people who have given up looking for jobs, and they are considered statistically employed, which is crazy!All right, now, look -- and one thing I have to say. Hillary Clinton is so bad for African-American youth. She is not going to create jobs. And she is going to be a disaster. And you see numbers coming out. I'm doing great with African-Americans. I'm doing great with so many different groups, so many different groups. And I'm doing -- and I'm starting to do great with Hispanics. Did you see...A recent poll came out, not that I want to use this as a standard, but I'm now 1 point higher than Romney in the election, 1 point higher with Hispanics. Now listen to this. So in Nevada, where you have a very big Spanish, really big Hispanic population, they did exit polls. I won easily! When we had 12 candidates, I won easily with the Hispanics! We're going to win with Hispanics because people...Let me tell you, people that have homes and have jobs, they're Hispanic, whether they're from Mexico or any place else, they're Hispanic. They don't want their homes taken away and they don't want their jobs taken away. And they don't want it. So we're going to have -- I think we're going to do fantastically.I employ thousands of Hispanics. I've employed thousands of people from Mexico. They're incredible people. You look at Doral in Miami. I own Doral. You look at places that I own, thousands -- these are unbelievable people.But you know what? We're going to protect their jobs. We're going to protect their homes. And when they hear it right -- and by the way, I settled with Univision. They paid me a lot of money. So now they're going to treat me good.They're going to treat me good. No, Univision's nice. But they gave me money and everything, and now we're all friends. I might even have to do a television interview with a certain anchor. Do we know who I'm talking about?This includes the approximately -- and this is a beauty -- $12,000 a year to educate the illegal immigrant students, OK? Now, here's a bad one. These are all right out of the book, folks, I hate to say. Last year, the number of homicides in Albuquerque increased by 35 percent. A lot of that's economic. A lot of it's economic.Now, here's a beauty that you can all love. Syrian refugees are being relocated in large numbers to New Mexico.If I was governor, that wouldn't be happening. I couldn't care less. They say the governors have no choice. If I'm governor, I have a choice, OK? Believe me. Believe me. And it's happening all over the country. We're taking in people from Syria.Do you ever notice the migration? First of all, there are so many men and they're so young and so strong, right? Where are the women? I mean, they have women, but not very many. There are not very many children. Then you wonder how come so many have cell phones? You ever notice? They have cell phones. They're walking in the migration.Now, look, I have a bigger a heart than anybody. I have as big a heart as anybody here. We got to help people, and what we'll do is we'll build safe zones in Syria, where probably they want to be in a certain way. And we'll get the Gulf states to pay for it because we don't have the money, all right?But we can't allow them to come into the United States. We can't. We don't have any idea who they are, where they come from. But what about the cell phones with the Syrian flag on it, OK? They're taking away cell phones from people. They're making phone calls on their cell phones and their cell phone has the Syrian flag!And by the way, worse than the Syrian flag, they have some horrible pictures on some of those cell phones, all right, folks? And we're taking them into our country. We have no idea who they are. There's no documentation.And you watch, wait until you see what happens! You're going to have problems like you never believed. And we're taking them in by the tens of thousands.We have to be smart. We have to be vigilant. And if we're not, we're not going have a country left anymore, folks. We're not going to have a country left, OK? We're not!So -- so -- and that's so true. That's so sad. Look at what happened in Europe. Look at what's going on in Germany. Look at what's going on in Sweden, where they had virtually no problems, and now they have a section and it is rife with killings. It's rife with all sorts of problems and crime.But look at what's going on in Europe. How stupid are we, folks? How stupid are we? We're not going to take this crap anymore! We're not going to do it. We're not going to do it.I mean, who really knows. Maybe it's the ultimate Trojan horse. So here's what's going to happen. We're going to build in terms of the drugs -- and you know, people fly in and all sorts -- but that wall is so important. We're going to build a wall, and it's going to be a real wall. It's going be a wall that's going to make that ceiling look quite low, and it's fairly high.And it's going to get built fast, and it's going to look beautiful because someday, they'll call it the Trump wall. Who the hell knows. But we are going to build a real wall. We're going to build a wall.You know, I don't know if you saw, we have a lot of the folks here that I know because I've seen a couple of them and they congratulated me. Three weeks ago, the border patrol agents endorsed -- 16,500 endorsed Donald Trump, OK?They have never, ever endorsed a candidate for president. This is the first time they've done it. Sheriff Joe Arpaio endorsed Donald Trump.Jan Brewer. They're all -- because I know what I'm doing! I know what I'm doing. I so know what I'm doing. But they all -- they all endorsed Donald Trump.We're going to have such a border, and it's going to be respected and drugs aren't going to flow in and destroy your youth because we're poisoning our youth and many other people, by the way. And I owe -- more than anybody -- I really do, because New Hampshire -- I owe it so much to them, but I owe it to the whole country. But New Hampshire, I look at these fields and these beautiful lakes and these beautiful rivers and I say, What's your biggest problem? And they say heroin. I say, Heroin? What are you talking about? They say, Heroin is our biggest problem, drugs. And they come across the southern border and there's nothing we can do. And you know what, Mr. Trump. It's cheaper than buying candy for our youth. And our youth is all hooked. Our youth is all hooked.And I said to the people of New Hampshire, I have no idea if I'm going to win. I was not expected to win New Hampshire because that was Jeb Bush country, and I won in a landslide.I won in a landslide. And I said to those people that we're going to stop it, but we're not going to stop it just for them. You go down to South Carolina, you go up to Massachusetts, you go to Alabama, where we had phenomenal -- I won the entire South! We won the entire -- and I won with evangelicals. I won with everything. We are winning big league!And all of those people were defeated, OK? They were defeated. And some don't like me very much, but that's OK. Believe me. Listen to this. 66 -- it was reported just yesterday 66,000 negative ads, 66,000! I said, How can I win an election? Every time I turned on a television, it was a negative ad, mostly phony, mostly phony, not all, 100 percent, but mostly. 66,000, $100 million, more than that, of negative ads against me, OK?And you know, when I'm rough with people, they say, You didn't treat Jeb Bush nicely. The guy took $12 million of ads against me, and they were nasty ads and they weren't true. So that's OK.But look, look, we have one person left. She is a total lightweight. Believe me. She is not -- you know, I watch her speaking. She always uses the teleprompter. I watch her speaking. We are going to win north and south and east and west! And I will never say this, but she screams. It drives me crazy. I didn't say it. I can't listen.She goes, And Donald Trump is a terrible person, and he wanted to buy housing when it was at a low point. Who the hell doesn't? Who doesn't?So I took these companies. I made a fortune. What am I doing? I didn't know I was going to run for politics. Probably I would have rather made less and maybe not do it, but I did it. But everybody did it. You look at the biggest names. I won't use their names. Look at the biggest names in business.So she's saying, And he did this and he did that. And I say to myself, It's so sad. You know, when you look, it's so sad, it's so pathetic to watch what's happening with our country, to watch the amateurs. We have total rank amateurs.But when I saw the ad about the housing -- and people on the plane, they said to me, You know, that's the kind of thinking we need in the country, somebody that knows how to do that.So here's what we're doing. We are going to do something that's going to be so spectacular. We are going to start winning again. We don't win anymore. We don't win anymore. We are going to rebuild our military. We are going to. Just listen.It is going to be so strong. We are going to knock the hell out of ISIS.And -- and by the way -- and by the way -- by the way, I have to tell you this. We are defending the world, folks. And I tell these people back there, I say, No, we defend Japan. And I heard a general the other day get on television, Donald Trump doesn't realize that Japan pays us 50 percent of the cost of defending them.I said, Why aren't they paying us 100 percent, right? This general -- he was so happy. He said, Donald Trump doesn't -- look, I like Japan. Lots of friends. We get it. We can't do it anymore, folks. We're defending Japan.We're defending -- you talk about monetary manipulation. How about Germany? We're defending Germany. It's an economic behemoth. We're defending Saudi Arabia.So I say to the press -- I had a very good meeting actually with some of the press, and some of it reported, but most of it not. They never follow up. They say, Donald Trump wants Japan to arm. I don't want Japan to arm. But it's possible that if they don't pay up, they're going to have to arm, folks, OK? They're going to have to arm. So that when North Korea acts up, let them worry about North Korea instead of us worrying about North Korea, OK?I mean, look at our deficits. Look at our budgets. We're defending -- you know, somebody said recently we spend more by many, many times on military than anybody else, right? You know what we're doing? We're defending everybody! We're not spending it on us. We're defending everybody.You look at NATO. So I was asked the question by an expert. I won't use his name, but I was asked a question by an expert about NATO. And look, I've been in business, but I know a lot about NATO and I have common sense. I said, Here's the problem with NATO. Number one, it's obsolete because it wasn't designed for terror. It was designed for the Soviet Union, which isn't even there anymore, but Russia is plenty of threat. OK. But we have to redo it.But the really big problem with NATO -- and I told him this -- you have many -- 28 countries, but many of the countries are not paying what they're supposed to be paying. So I said, They have to pay up. Do, re, me, right? They have to pay up! They've got to pay up.Then we have Japan. Then we have Germany. Then we have Saudi Arabia. Now, Saudi Arabia when the oil price was up, they're still making a lot of money. Saudi Arabia was making $1 billion a day. Why aren't they paying us?Now, here's what happened. A very big diplomat, a very big person said, You know, Donald...Sorry, we're going to keep winning! We are going to make America great again! I love you, New Mexico! I love you! I love you!Oh, what a crowd. This is unbelievable. Unbelievable!Come on!Cameras, turn over here. Turn over here, cameras. You know they never want to show the crowds we get. This is a movement, folks. This is is a big, beautiful movement.And no other Republican would say this, but we are going to play for California and we are going to win California. You watch. You watch.Nobody else can get this. I want to thank everybody. Amazing. And I want to thank Sarah Palin and all of the people who came here on our behalf and the speeches that they made today. I really appreciate it. This is unbelievable. I don't know how big this room is, but this is a lot of people.Thank you. So yesterday we had a very big day. You saw that, right? 1237. We reached it. Crooked Hillary cannot put Bernie away and we won over 17. We are going to win all the way. We are going to go all the way. We are going to make America great again. It's going to happen, going to happen.I want to thank you very much. I love San Diego. I love the people of San Diego. I love our vets. Where are our vets?We have Vets for Trump some place. Who are the Vets for Trump? Carrie! Hi, Carrie. Who are the Vets for Trump? Where are these guys? Can we get them up here? Get them up! We love our vets. Come on up here, fellas. Come on up.Good looking guys. Oh, look at this guy. We got a lot of power here.So, I got a call from Darryl a few weeks ago, long before people thought we'd be winning this so quickly. He said, "Donald, I endorse you 100 percent." And those are the people I remember. I like it.So Darryl, thank you. Where's Darryl?I appreciate it.Now, I'm the only one this can happen to, but on Tuesday we're announcing, you know, when I skipped the speech with Fox -- and I like Fox, but they didn't treat me so well. I saw it in a little thing -- we'll give a speech. And then during the speech, a little before the speech, I said, "Maybe we can raise some money for the vets, " right?And these guys gave between a half-million and a million dollars, right? And I said, "Whoa, we're up to $3 million -- $3 million. Maybe we'll get it up to $4 million, maybe we'll get it up to $5 million. Maybe we'll get it up to $6 million."And we raised like more than $5.5 million for the vets.And I never got such bad publicity in my life. It's unbelievable. It's unbelievable.So on Monday -- or Tuesday, we're releasing -- we give to many groups, many, many groups. And it's pretty close to $6 million that we raised. And it's for our vets and we love our vets, and there's nobody like our vets. And we're going to take care of our vets. We're going to build our military, by the way, bigger and better and stronger than ever before.But a big part of that is we are going to take care of our vets for the first time in a long time. We love our vets.We have a great vet, World War II. He looks like a young guy. They're all saying point him out. He's in the front row, and there he is.Beautiful. Thank you. Thank you very much. Fantastic.Women pilots, that's what I like.Thank you.So this has been amazing. This has been amazing. We -- we just left Fresno. We had a crowd that was, you know, just incredible. And really, we are going to win the state of California because people are tired. People are tired of the Hillary Clinton's of the world. It's all talk. It's no action. It's Crooked Hillary. It's the same stuff.And our country cannot take another four years of Obama. That I can tell you. That's what you're going to be getting.I mean, just take a look at the TSA. Take a look at what's going on at your airports. Take a look at what's going on with our military that we love. We can't beat ISIS. We're going to beat ISIS. We're going to beat them quickly. We're going to knock the hell out of them. We shouldn't have been there in the first place, but we're going to knock the hell out of them. And we have to rebuild our country.We've spent $5 trillion in the Middle East, and right now we have absolutely nothing for it. If we wouldn't have spent 10 cents, we would have been better off, believe me. We're going to rebuild our country. We're going to rebuild our military. We are going to take care of our needs, including our vets, and we're going to bring it back, folks. We're going to bring it back, and it's going to happen quickly.And we are going to build a wall. We're going to build a wall. We're going to build a wall. Latinos for Trump, I love you. You know? Build a wall.All right. Get him out of here. Get him out. Get him out.I love you. I love you. And I love San Diego. I have so many friends in San Diego. I love San Diego. And I really like when they put up Latinos for Trump. Latinos.We're going to do great with the Latinos because I'm going to -- I'm bringing back jobs. The Latinos, African-Americans, we are doing great with African-Americans. They want jobs. We are losing our jobs to everybody. We are being taken advantage of by the world. We are losing our jobs to everybody. We are going to bring back jobs like we haven't seen in this country for many, many decades. And people that aren't doing well, they are going to start doing very, very well, believe me.OK. So on June 16th, I came down the escalator with my wife Melania, and I said "Wow, this is going to be -- I have never seen, outside of the Academy Awards, the kind of press." But of course, look at what we have today. Mostly live cameras. Some of the most dishonest people in the universe. Some of the worst people.Why don't you take those cameras and spin them around a little bit and show them? Why don't you take them? Spin them around. They don't want to do that, folks. They don't want to do it. That's why I love my protesters, because the only time and the only way they show how big our crowds are, the only time is when there is a protester because that's a negative thing, they think. But I love our protesters, right?So I came down the escalator and I made a speech. And if you notice, that's my notes for the speech. We've got to go free form. We don't want teleprompters, right? No teleprompters. We ought to have a law that if you are running for president, you're not allowed to use teleprompters. It's too easy. Look what we got the last time. We got a teleprompter guy. We don't need that. We don't need that.So I started talking about illegal immigration, a tremendous problem. I don't think this would be a problem that would even be discussed, frankly, if we didn't do it and put it as part of our campaign. And we talked about bad trade, really bad trade. We are losing $500 billion a year with China. We are losing $58 billion a year with Mexico. We are losing over $100 billion a year with Japan.Now, our president is right now -- you're right. It's pathetic.Honestly, folks, we have leadership right now in this country, especially at the top, that is grossly incompetent. They don't know what the hell they're doing. They don't know what they're doing.So I saw he's in Japan in Hiroshima and that's fine, just as long as he doesn't apologize, it's absolutely fine. Who cares?But he said today that our trading partners and countries that we have relationship with, they're rattled -- they're rattled. And I said, "Yay, oh, that's so good." And a very, very powerful guy, a very great guy -- I won't use his name -- but most of you know. I saw him last week. Knows everybody. Highly respected.And he said, "Donald, I had no idea this was going to happen, but I'm being called by all of these countries -- Germany, Japan, Saudi Arabia." Think of it. We defend these countries and they don't pay us what they're supposed to be doing -- Germany, Saudi Arabia, Japan, South Korea, many others.Then you look at the NATO countries -- 28 total, many of them aren't living up to their obligations. So, we have common sense. We have business ability. What happens is this. He said, "I can't believe it; I didn't like your rhetoric." And I happen to be a nice person, folks. I'll get along great. I will get along so great with these countries. I will get along so great.But you know what? They're our friends. They're our allies. But they have been abusing us. They have been abusing us. This isn't 40 years ago when we could have done whatever we want. We owe $19 trillion. It's going up to $21 trillion because of the omnibus budget which was not so good. That's the budget that allows people to come in from Syria, people to cross the border, funds Obamacare which we shouldn't have done.Because we will terminate Obamacare and replace it, believe me, with something good. Believe me.Repeal and replace Obamacare.So, this man said, "Donald, I can't believe it." And he's like the biggest of the big. He said, "I disagreed with your style. I really did. I disagreed. And yet now all of these countries are calling: How do we get along with Trump? We think he's going to win. What do we do? How do we do it? How do we do it?"They're not going to take advantage of us -- no more, folks. We've had enough. No more. No more.So, the press is dishonest. And what they say, and what I say is very different. I watched Hillary Clinton last night, which was hard to do because she's a very boring speaker.And I will not say -- I will not say because it's not politically correct and it's not a nice thing to say, so I will not say that she shouts into the microphone and it drives everybody crazy. So I won't say that.But I found it very hard to watch. And then she lies. Now, you know, I called somebody a liar, but I don't say that anymore because that person is now in the past. I say that person is in the past. And with Hillary, we say "Crooked Hillary."But I've got to add another word because I never saw anything like this last night. She was saying that "I want Japan to arm with nuclear weapons." I never said that. She was saying, "I love the dictator in North Korea." I don't love the dictator -- bad guy, OK? Bad guy.She was saying all sorts of things so bad, and so false, total lies. And we're not going to let her get away with it. We're not going to let her get away.What I do say is this. We have tremendous deficits. We're losing a fortune. Our jobs picture is terrible. Don't believe the five percent. The real number is at least 20 percent. When you look for a job, and I can tell people -- raise their hands -- do you think I'd have an audience -- look at the size of this room, packed to every corner.You know what? People -- and the polls love me on security. And there's nothing more important than our national security. They love me on certain things.But honestly, we wouldn't have crowds like this, and it's everywhere we go. We wouldn't have crowds like this. They're as big as the room.And by the way, there are thousands of people outside that can't get in. OK? And it's not like, you know, Friday afternoon. You could have been doing something else, I guess, right?But we have fun. Are these the greatest places, the Trump rallies -- are they the greatest? All right?The greatest.So, and by the way, the safest place to be in this country is at a Trump rally. That I can tell you.Because we're going to unify our country. We're going to take care of the Hispanics. We're going get jobs. We're going to take care of the African Americans who are really suffering in this country. And Hillary Clinton can't do a damn thing for them and she never will.And guess what? She doesn't want to. OK? She couldn't care less.So -- so it's worked out beyond what we thought. We were supposed to be in July in Cleveland fighting for our lives. And I said, "What are you talking about? We're going to win on the first ballot; we're going to win on the first ballot." Right?Now, I didn't know it was going to go this quickly. Oh, look at the cameras. They turned because they found a protester. Look at those cameras -- those bloodsuckers. They found a protester.Thank you, protester. Thank you, protester. Thank you.Get him out. Get him out.Get him the hell out of here.It's always funny. You can never -- usually they're just singles. You know, their mom kicked them out of the house for the week. But usually, they're singles. And you can never hear them. But what you hear is my people going, "Get them out, get them out." My people make so much noise. It's true. It's true.So let me just tell you, Bernie Sanders has been great. We like Bernie. I like Bernie. You know why I like him? He doesn't have a chance and what he's doing to her is incredible.Because the system is rigged against Bernie. Did you ever notice? He wins, he wins, he wins, he wins. Then you watch the pundits -- these guys, the dishonest ones. They sit around, "He can't win, " because the system is rigged.I have to say, our system was rigged, too, except for one thing. If you win by massive landslides every week, it's no longer rigged. It's like the boxers -- right. That's what happened. The system was not meant for me to come in as an outsider that built a great company. I built a great, great company.But you know what? I say it for a different reason. And I started up, by the way, with a million dollar loan and now have a net worth of much more than $10 billion. And you know what? I don't even want it.I'll tell you what, all I want to say is this is the kind of thinking that we need to straighten out this mess that they've given us in our great country.This is the thinking we need. This is what we need.But we have a couple of minutes. Does everybody have a little time?So, I end up with a lawsuit. And it ends up in San Diego in federal court. And it's a disgrace the way the federal court is acting. Because it's a simple lawsuit. Everybody that took the so- called course -- it's Trump University -- is in San Diego.And the trial -- they wanted it to start while I'm running for president. The trial is going to take place sometime in November. There should be no trial. This should have been dismissed on summary judgment easily.Everybody says it, but I have a judge who is a hater of Donald Trump, a hater. He's a hater. His name is Gonzalo Curiel and he is not doing the right thing. And I figure what the hell? Why not talk about it for two minutes? Should I talk about it? Yes?So we should have won. I'm being railroaded. So here's the story. Very simple story. A number of years ago, a long time ago now, I open up a little school. We called it Trump University, changed the name. We had probably -- I don't know, a lot of people, like 10,000 people. The people -- you, did you like it? She said she was there, she liked it. Here's the story. So we open up, and it really was successful from the beginning, then we get these class action lawyers. They immediately sue. My people did a good job for a couple of reasons. One of the reasons was they had everybody that took the course sign like a report card. So we had let's say 10,000 people. Almost that many signed their report card. And the report cards are unbelievable.By the way, without that, it's their word versus these people or me. But I'm getting railroaded by a legal system that -- frankly, they should be ashamed because this is a case that -- I'll be here in November. Hey, if I win as president, it's a civil case. I could have settled this case numerous times.But I don't want to settle cases when we're right. I don't believe in it. And when you start settling cases, do you know what happens? Everybody sues you because you get known as a settler. One thing about me, I am not known as the settler. And people understand that this whole thing, with this whole deal with the lawyers, class action lawyers are the worst. It's a scam.So what happens is we get sued. We have a magistrate named William Gallo who truly hates us. And this is what? Now, the good news is it's a jury trial. But we can't even get a full jury. We're entitled to a jury. We want a jury of 12 people and you're going to watch. First of all, it should be dismissed before the trial, but if we have a trial, we'll go all the way. Watch how we win it because I have been treated unfairly. Very much like with the veterans, where I raised all that money, but on Tuesday, I'm announcing all of the groups that we've giving almost $6 million to.So what happens is the judge, who happens to be, we believe, Mexican, which is great. I think that's fine. You know what? I think the Mexicans are going to end up loving Donald Trump when I give all these jobs, OK? I think they're going to end up -- I think they're going to love.I think they're going to love me. So here's what happens. We get sued by a woman and she turns out to be a disaster for them. Her name is Tarla Makaeff and she rated on the report card -- it's one two five, five being excellent, the highest mark. She gave me a five across the board, all fives. She then did a video saying it was fantastic, the most glowing video you have ever seen. She then sued me because she wanted her money back.She was such a disaster that this judge -- it was her against us. She was such a disaster that this judge allowed her to get out of the case. But we want her to be in the case. And the lawyer said, "Your honor, we want her to be in the case." He said she's out of the case. So now, we have others. So we said, "Dismiss the case. She's out of the case." "No, we won't dismiss the case."So we have 10,000 surveys from former students giving Trump University rave reviews. It's called -- and it's on the website -- www.98percentapproval.com. OK?Now look, in all fairness, it hasn't hurt me much. Because, you know, they use this thing and every once in a while you have one. And we're going to win. But if I don't win, and even if I do win, we want to open -- my kids will open it up again, because it was a terrific school. It was great. It was good.Then we have a guy named Art Cohn, and he was late to file. So he signed a survey in which he rated the program either a four or a five. I will tell you this, how smart was it to ask everybody that took the course to sign a report card? OK?Now, you know what the lawyers are saying? The lawyers are saying, "Oh, but they were forced; 10,000 people were forced; they were forced." And you have pictures. We actually have videotapes of people. They weren't forced. A professor said, "Would you sign how you like it?" So that's it.So, he signed all fives and fours, out of a possible -- the highest marks. And indicated that his only complaint was the lack of nice lunch sandwiches. OK? Think of it.So he was late. So they went to the judge and the judge said, "He's late; why don't you file under RICO, organized crime?" Now, we've all been sued in business for RICO, even Papa John probably. Were you ever sued? Everybody. RICO's like -- but they ended it pretty much. So I get sued. Here's a guy give me all good marks. He's late. So they're starting a new lawsuit. Now, here's the thing. This law firm, because this is like a life study. This law firm gave a lot of money to the attorney general of New York, who is a total lightweight. His name is Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. Schneiderman accepts their money, goes to meet with President Obama in Syracuse when Obama was in Syracuse. And in the next day or two files a lawsuit against me because they -- in my opinion, they gave him a contribution; then goes to see Obama.You sort of see how the system works, folks. It's a bad system, let me tell you.So Obama -- Obama meets with this dopey Eric Schneiderman, who hates our governor and he wants to run for governor, but I don't think it's going to happen. Go up to -- they go up to Syracuse, meets with Obama, and he files a lawsuit.So, bottom line is this. People said, "You can settle." In fact, a lot of people said, "Oh, before you run, you should settle." I said, "I don't care; the people understand it." And they use it.So when I have 10,000 people, and when we have mostly unbelievable reviews, how do you settle? And in fact when the case started originally, I said, "How can I settle when I have a review like this? Every review is good." Now, I should have settled, but I'm glad I didn't.And you know, I tell this to people -- November 28th, I think it's scheduled for; shouldn't be a trial; should be a summary judgment dismissal.By the way, friends of mine that are great lawyers, in fact one of them represents you, said, "How the hell do you get sued under RICO for a guy that took a course, loved the course, said great things about the course, and then you get sued under RICO?"It is a disgrace. Now, I'm talking about Bernie Sanders has a rigged system. It is rigged. I'm talking about I had a rigged system, except we won by so much. I will tell you, this court system -- the judges in this court system, federal court. They ought to look into that Judge Curiel because what Judge Curiel is doing is a total disgrace. OK?But we'll come back in November. Wouldn't that be wild if I'm president and I come back to do a civil case?Where -- everybody likes it. OK. This is called life, folks. So here's what we're going to do. We are going to run this country properly with heart, with passion. We are going to save Social Security. We are going to save -- without cuts, we're going to save Social Security. We're going to bring back and save our Medicare, which people want to cut like hell. We're going to knock out -- remember this, knock out Common Core. Our educational system is a mess.We're going to knock out Common Core. We're going to bring our education to a local level and we're going to do great. Repeal and replace Obamacare. We are going to save our Second Amendment. Remember. Remember.Crooked Hillary wants to terminate -- she wants to abolish our Second Amendment. The NRA -- the NRA last week gave me their full endorsement. The first time in the history of the NRA, the earliest endorsement they've ever given. And I'm honored. And by the way, they're great people. They are incredible people. They're great people.We're going to start very soon -- as soon as we get in there, we're going to renegotiate our trade deals that are killing our country, OK? We're going to renegotiate with China. We're going to -- and we're going to have better relationships than we have right now. We are going to renegotiate our deals. We are going to renegotiate everything. Everything is up for grabs.Wait until you see the incredible potential that this country has when we're not run by people with no common sense, with no business ability, frankly, with no heart -- they have zero heart -- and people that are incompetent. Wait until you see what we're able to do in a fairly quick period of time.So I went out. As you know, we won New York big. We won everything, but we won New York big. Originally, and I owe it to them because drugs are pouring across the border and New Hampshire was my first victory. So I love New Hampshire. And you look at the streams and the beautiful trees and the rivers. New Hampshire people, obviously. I love you, too. Thank you.But it was my first victory. We won New Hampshire. That was supposed to be Bush, and he spent many more times than me. Wouldn't it be nice to hear, as the president, I've spent less money on this campaign than anybody else by far and have had the best results by far? Isn't that nice?But isn't that what you want for your president, OK? Are we tired of this horrible stuff that we witness? Every single thing we do, over budget, way behind schedule. We're going to change it. You know, I'm building a hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue between the White House and the Capitol building. The old post office. It's one and half years -- really, it's more than that. I even hate to say it because nobody believes -- it's actually two years, but I like to say one year.But we're opening in September a hotel at least 1.5 years ahead of schedule, under budget, and yet it's a higher-quality hotel than anybody ever saw before. I think it will end up being one of the great hotels of the world. And we're ahead of schedule, under budget, and yet, we have increased the scope of the hotel and it's going to be something our country is proud of.I made the deal with the GSA, government services. One of the most competitive deals in the history of government services. They made it for two reasons. Number one, they wanted to make sure it gets done and they looked at my balance sheet and they almost feel off their chairs. They said it's going to get done. Number two -- that was important because they don't want a half-built hotel. The other thing, they wanted a great concept. Wait until you see this.Now, I love opening it on September 15. Maybe I should wait until around November 2nd or 3rd, because that's going to be a great opening. And the problem with you guys is you tend to forget we have like a two-week-span, we have a two-week memory span. You know what I'm going to do? I think I'll open it up a little bit later. I'll still be so far. But it's going to be fantastic. That's what we should be doing for our country.You see our roads coming in so far above budget. You see our bridges. We don't build bridges, for the most part. You know, in the old days, we used to build bridges.You go to China -- bridges all over the place. It makes our bridges look like toys. Beautiful airports. You go to the Middle Eastern countries, many of them. They have airports the likes of which you've never seen, the most incredible structures, the most incredible buildings. And then we fly home and we land at LaGuardia with the potholes all over the runway. It's true.Or Kennedy or Newark or LAX. And it's a disgrace.We have become a third world country, folks, and it's not going to happen any longer. It's not going to happen any longer.So, what happened in Indiana was amazing. So we win all these states -- New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Delaware, Connecticut, Maryland. And by the way, won every county in every state. It's never happened before. Won by landslide, where even the slime -- the slime sitting over there, they would say -- they used to say, they can't say it anymore, because now we're getting 78 percent.But they used to say, "Donald Trump has not cracked 50 percent; yes, he's won, but he hasn't cracked 50 percent." I say there's 12 people running. There's 12. More importantly, and boy are we cracking 50 percent now, more importantly, in the history of the Republican Party, we've received more votes than anybody by far, by millions.And we have 10 states left to go; 10 states.And they'll never say that. They don't say that. So, you know, I might as well tell you. You know the expression, "If you don't toot your own horn, you better do it, because nobody else is going to do it for you." This slime is never going to do it, that I can tell you.You just saw Darrell Issa. You just saw Duncan. All these people. These are the best. It's really coming together quickly. And we're up to over 90 percent in terms of approval rate. And last time we had this clown named Mitt Romney who let us all down. I backed him. I backed him. And worked for him.So John McCain -- that was a tough race. John McCain lost. Mitt Romney lost. I said, "This time we're going to do it ourselves, folks, we're going to win; we're going to win."But -- and we are going to win. But just don't even think about it. And before we forget, so we've won the nomination, big, by numbers that you can't believe. But you've got to go out and vote in two weeks anyway because we want the mandate. We want the mandate. We have to have the mandate.So these two reporters -- I just read their story -- wise guys. They're not talented people. And they're saying, "Donald Trump is having a hard time bringing the Republican Party together." Why don't they say I won the nomination finally?It's as negative as you can make something sound that's a total positive. It's a little like I give the vets almost $6 million and they try and -- I didn't have to give them anything. You know, it's funny. I make a speech. And during the speech, I say, "Hey, let's raise some money for the vets." And I figured maybe we'd get a million bucks.And I told you before, then maybe $2 million. I end up -- and we're giving a full list on Tuesday -- but I've got these guys and they knock it. And we raise this. So I take something where nobody even thinks about it. You raise this fantastic amount of money. I'm giving it, I guess, to over 30 organizations, all great organizations. And instead of getting praise, they sort of knock you.And I say, "How do you get bad publicity when you've raised over $6 million?" Same thing here. So these two reporters, and they always pretend like they're your friend. "Oh, gee, Mr. Trump." The New York Times, I call it the "failing" New York Times is a disgrace. And by the way, the Washington Post is not much better. They are -- they've got 22 people on me right now.And he doesn't want to pay -- just listen. He doesn't want to pay tax on the internet. That's it. And he'll use that so that they're not going to tax Amazon on the internet. In the meantime, your department stores are all going out of business because it's unfair competition. So now, he's got a threat in terms of monopoly.Now, he knows I'm the only one that says it. The politicians are afraid to say it because he owns The Washington Post. So the other day, I get a call. They've got 22 guys, they're slopping all the stuff together and they're going to do a book that comes out in August. Wait until you see that one.So these -- are you OK? Yes. You make sure he's OK. Make sure he's perfect. Are you OK? You make sure, OK? We love these people. They've been standing here for six hours.So I love to call these institutions out. Now, no politician is going to do that because they care too much. Well, I care too, but I care about doing the right thing. And so it's just very interesting.Here's one other thing I have to tell you. The New York times last week made a fool out of themselves. They did a story on the front page of the Sunday Times. The top of the fold, most important -- center -- a massive picture of me standing with beauty pageant contestants, right?And then they interviewed 50 or 60 people. They put a few of them in because most of them said good things, and the few of them revolted because they said, "That's not what we said. That's now what we implied. We like Donald Trump. We love Donald trump. Donald trump treated us with respect." One of them, Rowanne Brewer, got married. Rowanne Brewer-Lane. And I said, boy isn't that terrible, that story?They wrote it very disrespectfully. Not very serious charges, in all fairness. But they wrote it really very disrespectfully. And I saw her on television and then I saw her again on television. And she was saying it was incorrect what they said. What they said was meant maliciously, and I like Donald Trump and respected Donald Trump and he always treated me great and you should not write like that. And then I had Carrie Prejean, a very fantastic young woman who was a member, and a very successful one, of the beauty pageants.And I see Carrie is here right now. Carrie. We love Carrie. And she married a great athlete and they're standing there together and he's great. they have a great -- and Carrie's so always going on and they mischaracterized her and they said they spoke to her and they never even spoke to her and they wrote false stuff.And then they wrote about another one and that was false. And then they wrote about a construction woman that worked for me named Barbara Res. I gave her the break of a lifetime. I let her build a major building in New York City where she was the construction manager, probably never happened to a woman before. I gave a woman a break.So I let her do it and gave her the break of her lifetime. Then when she left, she wanted to come back because you know, the grass is always greener. She left. Now all of a sudden, she loves Trump. And for a long time, she has wanted to come back, for many, many years. And she writes -- thank goodness for emails. I love emails. They never go away. Hillary, do you hear that?They never go away, Hillary.You know, Hillary is missing -- Hillary is missing 30,000 e- mails. I have people that will retrieve those emails.So she puts in the book something to the effect that Donald Trump is not sexist. I said that's a strange statement, although I must say I never read the book, but I read some passages. But it was a good book about me.But she wants to come back. So she's emailing to my secretaries for years, "Oh, I want to come back; Donald Trump is the greatest; I've never met anybody like him; he's not a sexist person; he's the greatest, greatest, greatest, " letter after letter, email after e- mail. And then she's in the New York Times and she's saying, "Oh, he's a horrible person, horrible."All right. So are you ready? So now she writes all these letters that Trump is the greatest. And now I see her picture, and I say, "Oh, that's good, I'll get a good -- at least somebody will say good, " because I didn't know that Carrie Brejean was going to come out and say "great " after reading negative stuff.And to this day, I have women that are making more money for the same job as my men, and I'm happy about it, and I expect a lawsuit any day from the men. They'll sue me that they're not making it because we're living in that kind of a society.My men will be suing me on Monday morning because they're not making as much as the women. I don't care. I don't care. Because we're doing great with women. I don't believe the polls. I can tell -- look at all the women. We're doing great with women. Women for Trump. Women for Trump.Thank you. Wow. Thank you very much.I think we're doing great. And by the way, the numbers with women are going up. But you know what women want to see? They want to see strong borders. They want to see a strong military. They want to see strength. Is that right? They want to see strength.And I'll tell you what, they want to see jobs. They want an economy that's going to boom. And nobody -- everybody admits -- I think even Hillary admits, but everybody admits that what I'll do for the economy, nobody else can do.I call it "the failing New York Times." So the New York Times wants to meet, so they met with one of my guys. They had a good meeting; didn't mean anything. You know, they just -- I think they just don't want to be sued, you want to know the truth. But these people are very dishonest.The New York Times, the Washington Post, most of the people up there. Now, some of them are fine -- not too many of them, but some of them are fine. But you have to fight back. When somebody hits you, you have to fight back.A little bit. Maybe. And she said -- now here's a woman that used the F-bomb more than any person I've ever heard. And she said, "He was obviously talking about my weight." I mean, give me a break folks. We are -- we are so politically correct now, our country is dying from within. We've got to get back to business. We've got to rebuild our country. We've got to rebuild our infrastructure.Remember this, almost $5 trillion spent in the Middle East, and we don't have enough room to fix a road that's right outside that, by the way, I looked at just now. It's in horrible shape. OK? We can't fix our highways, our tunnels. And we're going to get it going, folks.We're going to get it going. You are going to be so proud of your country once again.So here's the story. I came here and I'm leading in the polls, we're leading in almost every poll now. Do you believe this? It's so great. But I came here and I said, and specifically, we were in Costa Mesa. We had a tremendous rally. Who was there? Were you there? Thirty-one thousand people. Nobody even showed it because there were a couple of thugs outside burning the American flag, holding other flags up in the air. They were burning and they were stomping on a car -- a police car -- stomping on it.By the way, did you see when he got off that car? He broke his ass. Did you see that?He tried to pretend he wasn't hurt. That was adrenaline. Oh, did he hurt. Oh, was he hurt. He -- that guy walked away, he said that was painful.But all you saw was this thug and these people burning the American flag and holding up flags from other countries. These are thugs. They hardly showed the rally that we had inside where we had the parents of young children who were killed by illegal immigrants, right? Where we had the most amazing lovefest, like this. The most -- even more people. Where we had the most amazing lovefest.You know, a friend of mine came to me and he came to Dallas. We had 21,000 people at the Mavericks arena. He said to me, "Donald, can I ask you a question? How do you do this? You're here to speak in front of these people." A very good musician said Trump is the greatest in the world without a guitar, meaning without an instrument. I've got to stand up here by myself. If I bomb -- if I bomb, they will -- believe me, they'll let us know about it.But he said to me, "How do you do this?" And I looked at this -- this is, by the way, one of the most successful people in the country, in the world. And he looked at this massive audience like this today and like I had a little while ago in Fresno. And he looked at this massive audience, he said, "How can you get up there and speak? Do you have notes?" I say, "No." "Do you have something?" I say, "No, I have like a good head."I have a good memory. I have a very good memory. But he said, "How do you do it?" And I said, "You know, honestly, it's not hard because there's so much love in the room." It's unbelievable. There's love in the room. We want to take our country back. We want to take our country back. We're tired of being the stupid people all over the world. We are tired of it, and we're going to end it.Thank you. So folks, I love ending this way. And you know, we're on live television so much and it's embarrassing because we get these crazy ratings, so they take advantage of all of us and they put me on all the time. Look at all the cameras.You know, when Hillary comes, you have no cameras. Nobody wants to watch. And it's always difficult because you have to make different speeches. You can't be on live television all the time, right, and make the same speech because people are going to say he said that this morning, he said that yesterday. So you're going to make -- which is a little tougher.But the nice part is I can talk about current events. I can talk about things like we mentioned before, the TSA, how badly it's being managed. I can talk about our vets, how badly just things over the last two days came down. You say what's going on. It's out of control. Our Veterans Administration is a corrupt enterprise. You ought to get Judge Curiel to look into that instead of wasting everybody's time so that he can take advantage of Donald Trump. That's what Judge Curiel do. He should be ashamed of himself.But here's the story, folks. I like to end it this way. And how many ways can you end something? And you know, somebody said make America great again is a very negative statement. I said no, no, no. It's a very positive statement because we are going to make America great again. But listen. Listen. We don't win anymore as a country. We don't win with our military, with education, with trade, with anything. We don't win.And now, they want to take your Second Amendment away? That's not going to happen. But we don't win anymore. And I say this and I have fun saying it and I love saying it and we can't do it any better. We are going to start winning again big-league.We're going to win with our military. We're going to knock the hell out of ISIS.We're going to win for our great vets, and they are great.We're going to win for our great vets. They have not been treated properly. Illegal immigrants get better treatment in many cases than our veterans, and that's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. So we're going to win for our vets. We're going to win on education. No more Common Core; bring it down. Bring it down. We want it local.We're going to win with healthcare. We're going to win at the border. We're going to win at trade. We're going to win so much that you people are going to be calling your president and you're going to say, "Please, Mr. President, we don't want to win anymore. You're winning too much. You're driving us crazy." And I'm going to say...And I'm going to say, "I am very sorry, but we're going to keep winning and we're going to win, win, win and we're going to make America great again." I love you. Thank you. I love you, San Diego. Get out and vote. Get out and vote. We're going to win California. Get out and vote. Thank you, everybody.... a couple of times, so you know, four words. We're going to win in the north, south, east, and west! Ba-pa-pa. Ba-pa-pa. Ba -- oh, boy. So insincere.Number one -- and I'll copy Bernie because Bernie's good with this because if I say it, they say, Oh, he's too rough. She's not qualified because she has bad judgment! Now, who said that? Bernie Sanders said it about Hillary. She's not qualified.So here are seven points that I marked down which I think are important, and they talk about Hillary and her incompetence. She's one of the worst secretaries of state in the history of our country! Now she wants to be our president.But -- but do you really believe that Hillary is presidential? This is not presidential material. Her Libya invasion -- the Libya invasion was disgusting. I mean, you know who has the oil? ISIS has the oil from Libya! We went in, we knocked the hell out of Libya. We did all of the things with Gadhafi and all the -- oh, we did great. She ends up with Benghazi.Remember the famous phone call? At 3:00 o'clock in the morning, she'll answer the call. Guess what? She was sleeping! She was sleeping like a baby! Don't wake me up. Of course, she took the calls from her slimy friends, but SHE didn't take 500 to 600 calls. They were calling and calling, and she was sleeping.And she did that phony commercial. Remember that? That phony commercial, if the phone rings at 3:00 o'clock in the morning -- well, it did ring a lot of times, and she was sleeping. Maybe it's no energy, low energy, right? She needed her sleep. She needed her sleep.So her Libya invasion, decisions on Syria, Iraq and Iran have made the Middle East more dangerous than ever, ever before. And you know that. She went to sleep when her ambassador was murdered. And we talked about that. But she went to sleep.She wants to ship all of our jobs overseas. Hillary Clinton wants to make trade agreements that will take care of the rest of the jobs that her husband didn't take care of with NAFTA.We're not going to let it happen, folks. We're going to bring our jobs back.A big thing and a big thing for Sacramento. Another point. I said it before. She wants to abolish the 2nd Amendment. Never, ever, ever going to happen!And she does -- and believe me, she'll say, I don't want to -- you look at what she wants to do, she wants to abolish the 2nd Amendment. Just believe me.She wants totally open borders. She wants a 500 percent increase in Syrian refugees. Now, remember this, folks -- folks, we have no idea who the hell these people are. And we all have big hearts and let's build some safe zones in Syria. Let's get the Gulf states to pay for them because Gulf states have a lot of money. We'll get it done. We'll get the Gulf states to pay for them. I don't want to pay for them! We don't have any money! And then, of course, you talk about bad judgment.Go ahead. Thank you.So you talk -- you talk about bad judgment. She broke federal law by putting her emails on a secret private server that foreign countries could easily get to and hack! I mean, folks, if anybody else but her did this, they'd be in jail two years already.I mean, honestly, she should not be allowed to run. It's a disgrace. It's a disgrace to the laws of our country. She should not be allowed to run. With that being said, I want to beat her, but she should not be allowed to run.So look, we are going to make our country so strong again. We have to. We have no choice. We have to. We're going to bring back our jobs, so important. Our jobs are a disaster. We're going to bring back our jobs and we're going to bring them back fast.So what happened? You know, I won all those states, and then they said -- I won't say who, because you know what? Once you win, you don't have to talk about them. A but a couple guys, one in particular said Indiana, that's going to be the firewall, Indiana. Well, I had Bobby Knight. So once I had Bobby Knight, it was all right.Bobby Knight, boy, what a coach, 900 games he won, 900, three championships, last undefeated season. He called me up, probably five months before I was going to run, Bobby Knight, great coach, great guy, tough guy. Is he too tough? Do you think he's too tough? No. We need toughness.And he said, You know, Mr. Trump, I don't know you, but you're the kind of guy I want to see run for president. This is before I decided to do it. It's a big decision. You know, it's not easy. Believe me. It's a big decision. I have to deal with that scum back there that write all the bad stuff. Believe me.They write bad stuff. They write really bad stuff. Not all of them. Some are good. But so many of them are such bad people. They're bad human beings. And they're liars, OK? They're liars.But Bobby Knight calls me up before I'm going to run, he said, You should run. I said, Coach, give me a number. If I do, I'm going to call you. And I sort of put it in the bottom of my desk. I had a pile of papers a mile high. And a friend came in, and it goes to -- we won New York. We won Pennsylvania. We won Connecticut. We won everything.And then a friend came in and he said, Donald, if you could ever get Bobby Knight -- I said, I think I can. This is, like, a year later. And I said to him, Bobby Knight called me, like, a year ago and he said I should run. Let me see if I can find -- I lift up this pile of papers, and there's his number, like, sitting there. That's better than having an iPhone, right? That's the old-fashioned way.And I said, Coach, coach, how are we doing? It's Donald Trump? He said, I've been waiting for you to call. And that was a week before I went to Indiana. And man, was he good. He was great. And we just -- we won in a landslide. But we won New York. We won Pennsylvania. We won Connecticut. We won Rhode Island and Delaware and Maryland, and then we won -- they the last ones.When we -- I tell you, a special place for me was New Hampshire because in New Hampshire, I got to know the people really well. That was my first victory. I wasn't supposed to win New Hampshire. Jeb Bush was supposed to win New Hampshire.But he was -- you know, sort of his territory. He was supposed to win. And I got to know the people, and I campaigned and I made speeches. But I really sat down with people and people of New Hampshire, and I said What's the problem up here? Because they were -- you know, they got some problems. They said, Our problem is heroin. I said, Heroin? What are you talking about? He said, Our problem's heroin.Now, you look at the rivers and the trees and those beautiful roads, and it doesn't seem -- they have a tremendous heroin problem. You have and everybody has. And it comes across the border. That's why.That wall is going to get built. And that wall is going to be so powerful. It's going to be so powerful. And don't kid yourself. You know, ask Israel. Do walls work? They work. Just ask Israel.Have no choice! Have no choice.Folks, we have no choice.You know, when I was in the debates -- did I do a good job in the debates? You know, I think so. I didn't know. I never debated professional. All of a sudden, I'm standing up there -- remember, there were 17 people, 17! They had what they called a children's stage and the real stage. And every single debate, I was dead center, right?I look so forward to debating Crooked Hillary. Oh, do I look forward!You know, Bernie wanted to debate me. I don't know if he did or not. He wasn't trying too hard, I'll tell you. Believe me, behind the scenes, he wasn't trying hard. To the media, he was, Oh, I want to debate him. Behind the scenes, I'm not sure he wanted it.But Bernie, in all fairness -- I said, put up money, to the networks, put up money for women's health issues in this case. And they're very cheap. You know, they want to make a lot of money, but they're not so -- they're not so fast with giving it away.But I would have liked it, but then I said -- and somebody told me -- I said, Look, the system is rigged. The guy is working hard, but his system is rigged. He can't win. You shouldn't be debating the guy that comes in number two. Does that make sense? Yes? And the networks weren't coming through. But it would be a good spectacle. We'd knock off Bernie and then we knock off Hillary. I don't know.The problem is, he can't win. The system's all rigged up. It's all rigged up for Hillary. So let's see what happens. But I look forward -- whoever the hell I have to debate, I don't care. But I look so forward to those debates.So here's what we're going to do. We have a country that doesn't win anymore, right? We know that. We have a -- when was the last time -- seriously. Think about it. When was the last time we had a victory in this country? We don't have victories anymore.Did you see our GDP? It's, like, almost zero! If that happened in China, they'd have a revolution. It's -- you know, they get down to 7 percent, 8 percent, and they start devaluing their currency again, which kills us because they take our jobs and they kill our companies when they do that, and they're not supposed to do that.And they're not supposed to be building fortresses in the South China Sea. They have no respect for our country. They have no respect for our president. They think he's a total lightweight. And now he's going to be campaigning. And you know what? He shouldn't campaign. He should go out and do the job that he's supposed to be doing, not campaigning!So we don't win anymore. We don't win with jobs. We don't win with the economy. We don't win at all. But let me tell you, folks, and I mean this so sincerely. We are going to win like we've never won before. Telling you.I'm telling you. We're going to bring our jobs back. We're not going to let Carrier go so easily to Mexico. We're not going to let Ford build its plants in Mexico and other places. We're going to say, Folks, you're not going to close plants in Michigan. I think I'm going to win Michigan.You know, Michigan's another one. They're saying that a Democrat will win Michigan, except for a problem. They just looked at a poll. Trump is winning in Michigan because...Because for two years, they're talking about how Michigan has been abused. That's why I won in Indiana. I won Indiana because for years, for years, I've been talking about what is happening with Indiana and certain companies? And then all of a sudden, Carrier says they're leaving and they fire all those people. And those people used to attend my speeches like crazy.So here's the story. We don't win anymore. We're going to start winning.But I know all about Richmond.You know, we set this up yesterday. We've had one day and look at this. I mean, it's amazing.Well, thank you, everybody. Thank you.And we're going to bring jobs back to America, remember that. Jobs back. No more games. We're playing games. This country of ours is playing games. And they're not smart games.So I want to thank everybody. I want to thank the folks from Richmond.So, here's the story. You know, I have a lot of property, a lot of employees. I think some of them are here. Where's Kerry? Where's Kerry?You know we have the vinyard. It's the largest vineyard on the east coast. And I don't drink. I don't drink, can you believe it?But it's the largest -- there she is. Hello, Kerry. Are we doing well? We've got a lot of employees. How many employees? 110? That's a lot, right? That's a lot. That's great.You're doing a fantastic job.So it's in Charlottesville, the Trump vineyard. And I don't know if you want to try and come up here. Come up here, Kerry. What the hell, we have all night.So great. I'll tell you, so great.And then in Loudoun County, you know Loundoun County, I have a great club. How are you?We have a great -- where are those people? Look at them. Loundoun County on the Potomac River, one of the most beautiful clubs you've ever seen, and one of the best golf courses anywhere in the world. And it is beautiful.And I think we're going to do -- we're going to take the press over there someday. We're going to do a news conference on the Potomac River, OK? All right? We'll bring them over.So I want to talk to you -- a couple of things. First of all, where is she? She's so unbelievable.What a job. What a job.So I want to talk to you. It's been an amazing period of time for all of us, because it's a movement. I mean, think of it. We say yesterday let's do this, because we were in the area like what does that mean? The area means I was a half an hour away by air going 600 miles an hour, so I wouldn't call that the area. But it's sort of the area, right.And, I said, let's do it in Richmond. We had the arena, let's do it in Richmond. And we did it in Richmond.So, that's cool.Got to win. We've got to win the state of Virginia. And this whole thing with the prisoners, I don't know, Kerry. This whole thing with the prisoners, not sounding too good, right?Where murderers can vote and all these people can vote. I don't think so. I don't know. Doesn't sound good.Hopefully the court will act quickly. 200,000 people -- and many of these people, look, it's not supposed to be the way it works, folks, so it's one of those things.Kerry, so you run our facility, tell them about the facility, go ahead. In one minute.Thank you, Kerry. She does an amazing job. What a great job she does.So we started a year ago, 12 months. And when I came in I was told by all of the pundits, you're wasting your time. This is the finest group of Republican talent ever assembled. So I figured what chance do I have, right? What chance? And it worked out good, right? It worked out good.And we're doing well, I'll tell you. The polls are looking good in Virginia by the way, looking good in Virginia. Got to win. Very important state.I'm going to be here a lot. Do you mind? Over the next five months I'm going to be here a lot. It's true, though. I'm heading down to Florida. We have a massive crowd tomorrow in Florida. And we're heading down there. And we're going to be in Tampa.And -- great place, Tampa. And I said, let's stop on the way down. So, that's why we're here. And I appreciate everybody coming out on such short notice. We love you, Richmond. We love you, Virginia. We love you.So we began the journey and I came down the escalator, you remember, with Melania. And since then it's been incredible. And we started where we did very well in Iowa. Should have won Iowa, but one of those things. Something happened there.But we won New Hampshire. And then we just kept winning and winning and winning. We won a lot. I think it ended up 37 states. Think of it.Most importantly, we had more votes. And I say we. This is like a movement, folks. This is something that's very serious.And you know one thing that's a little bit embarrassing but we'll take it, whatever it takes, right? They say that they're polling very well, but they're always adding 5 percent, and 7 percent, and 9 percent. Because they say, a lot of people don't say they're going to vote for Trump, but when they get in the booth they vote for Trump.Be proud of it, folks. Be proud of it. It's true.You know, I didn't know -- was I supposed to be happy or insulted? Now then you have the opposite effect, a lot of people, you know, they run and they're stiffs. They're stiffs. And people all want to say it's politically correct. Yes, I'm going to vote for so-and-so. I don't want to say who it -- they call a certain effect. It took place in California.But it's the opposite, where they poll high. So I always poll low, because people don't want to say it.But you know, the biggest person in California called me up the other day. And he said, I think you're going to win California. And I don't know, you know, frankly, the Republicans don't even campaign in California. But I go there, we get tremendous -- we had 31,000 people two weeks ago -- 31,000. I mean, we have crowds that are so incredible.So they said, you know, I think you can win. Every liberal in Los Angeles is going to vote for you. This is one of the biggest guys, movie guys. He said, I'm a liberal. Every friend I have is voting for you. On cable, they never talk about it.Do we care? We don't care, right? Just make sure.Remember, you have to vote.So we started. And you know, I'll never forget New Hampshire. I'm going to make a big speech in New Hampshire on Monday, by the way. It's going to be called the Hillary Clinton something -- or the Crooked Hillary speech.So dishonest.You see the $250,000 she got today? She got $250,000, it was just reported by ABC. Congratulations, ABC. But she just got $250,000 and some guy gets a position to do with nuclear, OK, give me a break. There's so much corruption. There's so much going on.And this Josh Earnest yesterday said criminal investigation. He wasn't supposed to say that. But if the system works, she's really not allowed to run, folks. The system.You know what? I want to run against her badly. But it's really unfair -- no, it's really unfair to other people. It's so unfair to other people who did 10 percent of what she did and they ended up destroying their lives, OK? It's very unfair.Again, North Carolina, special place. And you know, we went through a weekend the likes of which we should never have to see again. And I wrote a few things down that I want to read because we can't let this happen anymore. We can't. We have to be so tough. We have to be so strong. We have to be so vigilant. We can't be led by weak, ineffective people! We can't. They're weak and they're ineffective!And believe me, Hillary Clinton -- weak, ineffective. You listen to her -- I don't know if you know, she has 550 percent more people she wants to come in than Obama from a certain area where we just don't know what's going on.We don't know who they are, where they're coming from. There's no documentation. And the governors -- I just left some great governor, including, by the way, Pat, your governor. He's doing a fantastic job.But I just left a whole group of governors and they say these people are being put in their communities. They don't even know who they are. They don't know where they're being put. They're, like, being snuck into certain communities and government and governors don't even know who's coming in to their community. What a mess we have! What a mess we have!And I just wrote some of this down, and well, we got to do it because, normally, I talk about jobs, which nobody can compete with us on jobs. Believe me. We're going to bring them back from all these countries that have ripped us off like nobody's ever been ripped off before!We're going to bring our jobs back. And guess what? We're not going to let our companies leave anymore! There's going to be a little bit of a repercussion when they start to leave. There's going to be repercussions!But as we all know, in Orlando over the weekend, a radical Islamic terrorist killed 49 people, at least, and wounded dozens more, dozens. It was the worst terrorist attack since September 11 and the worst mass shooting in our country's history.We want to live in a country where gay and lesbian Americans and all Americans are safe from radical Islam!Which, by the way, wants to murder and has murdered gays, and they enslave women. Now, Hillary Clinton talks about women, and she talks about how she's going to do. She plays the woman card more than any human being I've ever seen in my life. And frankly, I don't even think women like her, from everything I see.And yet she's taking -- she's taken $25 million from certain countries, and much more than that when you add it up, that treat women horrendously, that kill gays. And you know what's going to happen, folks, and you know what we're going to do right now? Let's call for Hillary and Bill Clinton to give back the $25-plus million to the countries that we're talking about!Right. So the killer's parents immigrated from Afghanistan...... as "The Washington Times" reported, the children of Muslim immigrant parents -- they're responsible for a growing number -- for whatever reason, a growing number of terrorist attacks. The killer's Afghan father supported the Taliban, which believes in violently oppressing women and gays. Violently. We're not talking anything else. We're talking violently.Once again, we've seen that political correctness is deadly! They don't want to talk about the problem!And I watched President Obama today, and he was more angry at me than he was at the shooter!And many people said that. One of the folks on television said, Boy, has Trump gotten under his skin. But he was more angry -- and a lot of people have said this. The level of anger -- that's the kind of anger he should have for the shooter and these killers that shouldn't be here!Now there are reports that the wife knew about the attack. The second wife knew about the attack but may have not told the authorities. Nobody really knows. Her family reportedly is from Afghanistan.According to Pew -- it's a Pew report -- 99 percent of the people in Afghanistan support oppressive sharia law.Immigration from Afghanistan has increased five-fold. We don't know what we're doing, folks! Every year, we bring in more than 100,000 lifetime immigrants from the Middle East and many more from Muslim countries outside of the Middle East.A number of these immigrants have hostile attitudes. And it doesn't take a big percentage. Look what one whack-job -- look at this one whack, this one horrible savage -- look what he did in a short period of time to great young people. Look what he did and look at the carnage and devastation and destroyed families that he's caused.So a number of these immigrants have hostile attitude toward women, toward gays, and people of different faiths, and that includes everybody. They're hostile. If you're not with them, it's, like, forget it.Hillary Clinton's immigration plan would bring in millions of unvetted immigrants, or very poorly vetted. And how can you vet somebody when you have no idea where they come from, you have no idea about the paperwork? Frankly, they have better passports than we do because they stole our passport machines! How that happened is pretty amazing, all right? Including those who hate gays, women, Jews, Christians, everybody.Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Wow. Look at that. I love you. I love you North Carolina, I love you. Unbelievable.You know, it's an incredible thing. The system is rigged but we're still happy to be together. Right? Totally rigged. What a system. What a group, I'll tell you what.What's going on -- I'm gonna be talking about it but before I do -- a great friend of mine, somebody respected by everybody, Senator Bob Corker.Come on up, Bob, come on up.Pretty good, pretty cool.Great guy. Great guy. Great person.So I have to tell you a few things. Numbers just came out, just now, number one we're doing very well in the polls, that's important, OK? Very well. We're doing very, very well. But you know the numbers just came out that during the primary system, during the primaries, the Republicans -- I wonder why -- were up 62 percent, the Democrats were down 21 percent. These are final numbers. Just came out.That tells you a little bit, a little bit about what's going on. And what's going on very big, and big league, is what you witnessed today and over the last week.From Bill Clinton going to the plane, just happened to be there, just happened to be there, I wonder how long he waited? But for Bill Clinton to go to the plane and then to have what happened today where essentially, I thought, everybody thought, based on what was being said she was guilty. She was guilty. And it turned out that -- we're not going to press charges. It's really amazing.But I'll tell you -- look, we have a rigged system, folks. I used to say it during the primaries. We're all together. I won North Carolina big league because of you. Big league. And not only did the Republican Party go way up from what it was four years ago, way, way up -- but Donald Trump, in the history of the primary system, Republican Party, with 17 people running -- a lot of people don't understand you say 17 people -- I got almost 14 million votes, more than anybody in the history of the Republican Party. More than Ronald Reagan. More than the Bushes. More than Richard Nixon. More than Dwight D. Eisenhower -- who did win the Second World War, he's certainly up there -- we got the highest vote count in the history of the Republican Party.That was such a big thing for me. We won 37 states -- I just got stronger and stronger and stronger. And I think we're stronger now than ever before. We're fighting a very dishonest media.Do we have a protester? Get him out please.We love our protesters, don't we? It's the only time I get the cameras to turn. The only time we get those cameras to turn -- look at the size of this place. This is really great. This is really great.Get him out. Get him out. Get him out. All right, thank you.Thank you. That's all right, take it easy. Take it easy folks.You know, if I could speak to these people for a little while -- what do we want, when you think of it? We want good education, we want a strong military, we want strong borders, we do want the wall, we want to keep our jobs in North Carolina...We want to keep our jobs in North Carolina. I mean look at what's going on folks. We're gonna build the wall, don't worry. Who's gonna pay for the wall? Who's gonna pay?I didn't hear you. Who's gonna pay?Better believe it. They're gonna pay. They'll be happy to pay if the right person asks them. They're gonna be happy to pay. No problem. If the wrong person like Crooked Hillary Clinton asks them they're not gonna pay but she's never gonna ask. She's never gonna ask and I'll tell you why.When it comes to trade, and I just got a list of companies that have left North Carolina and they've gone down to Mexico, and it's a disgrace. It is a disgrace what's happening and we're gonna stop it. And it's not gonna happen any longer. We're losing our jobs, we're losing our manufacturing, we're gonna stop the nonsense that's going on and it's so easy to stop, we will stop it so fast your heads will spin. Remember that. Your heads will spin.So we'll talk a little bit about trade later. It's so easy. The trade is so easy folks. It's so easy. The trade of all of them. We're gonna knock the hell out of ISIS. We have...... by the way...... we have a president who's out campaigning for Crooked Hillary Clinton and he should be home working on ISIS where the threat is getting worse and worse. He should be working on trade. He should be working on the borders. People are flowing into our country from lots of places. But from Syria, no more. No more. OK, they're not coming here. No more. We don't know who they are, we don't know where they come from, they have no documentation, they have no paperwork and who knows? Who knows?But you know what? We can't take any more chances folks. We can't take any more chances. If you look at Crooked Hillary, she wants to increase the immigrants coming in from Syria. Again, they could be ISIS. This could be the all-time great Trojan Horse. You know the story of the Trojan Horse. This could be the all-time great -- look at what one person has done in Orlando. Just take a look.One person. Look at the horror that that person has wreaked on our country. The gay community, the LGTB community was just -- nobody can even fathom what took place. That's one bad apple. We have many people coming in, and you know what? It just takes a small percentage, but there's something going on and guess what? We have a leader that doesn't even want to discuss the name of the problem. And the name of the problem is radical Islamic terrorism. And it's a problem.And we've got Hillary Clinton, who's weak, who's ineffective, she'll never be able to do the job. Her judgment is horrible. Look at her judgment on emails. Who would do it? Look at her judgment. Her judgment is horrible. All right? Her judgment is horrible.Now who said that about Hillary? Bernie Sanders said, "Her judgment is bad. She's got bad judgment." OK? Now let me tell you. Whether it's ISIS, whether it's trade, whether it's borders, whether it's jobs -- it's gonna be four more years of the same thing. The last thing we need is another Clinton or the last thing we need is an Obama-Clinton in the White House.We have got a mess in this country. We owe $19 trillion, soon to be $21 trillion, the debt has doubled under Obama. It's doubled. Wait till you see. We are sitting on a mess and it's gotta be taken care of. Way it gets taken care of -- at least that aspect of it -- is jobs. We're gonna bring jobs back to North Carolina. We're gonna bring jobs back to our country.It's going to be America First. Not all these other countries that don't give a damn about us. It's going to be America First. America, America, America First.We have a person in the White House that's having a lot of fun. Lot of fun. I watched him today. Like a carnival act. Lot of fun. Moving around, he has the whole thing -- you know, great, great, great. I'm saying, "This is a president." We need a president who's gonna bring us back. We need a president that's not gonna be divisive. We need a president that's gonna take care of the African-American community. Remember that. Remember that.Obama is all talk and no action. We need a president that's going to create jobs for Hispanics who don't have the jobs. We need a president that's gonna turn our country around and Obama cannot do it, and Hillary Clinton will be even worse, believe me. She will be even worse.I brought up something last night. I heard they're flying down on Air Force One. Now Air Force One is a very old Boeing 747. It sucks up a lot of gas. A lot of fuel. Boy, the fuel bill. You turn on those engines, I can tell you, it's a lot of money. I said, let me ask you a question. Why is she campaigning with the plane of the United States? Why is she campaigning and why is he allowed to come down, get on that very, very, very expensive plane -- you know he talks about the carbon footprint. OK?He wants to solve the carbon footprint but he gets on an old, the Boeing 747 that's spewing stuff into the air. He gets her on the plane and then they say, "We will fight for the environment. We will fight for the carbon footprint." Then he gets back into the Boeing 747 and goes back to Washington.His greatest was when he wanted to play golf in Hawaii, so he takes the 747 -- by the way he's played more rounds just about than people that play professionally on the PGA Tour. I mean, this guy.And he gets on this plane, flies to Hawaii, he's there for a long time, golf, golf, golf, more, more, learning how to chip, learning how to hit the drive, learning how to putt. I want more.Our country is going to Hell. ISIS is laughing at us, they're chopping off heads, they're drowning people in steel cages, and he's out there playing golf with just about as long a trip as you can make from Washington.Then, after a long extended vacation, he gets back on the plane, flies back, lands, starts talking about the environment. OK, give me a break folks. Give me a break. Give me a break.Now, you know, we need unity in the Republican Party. I have to be honest, I think I'll win without the unity but we need unity in the Republican Party. For the most part we have unity. We have some pretty good stuff and we have some great people like Bob who just came up and so many others, so many senators, so many congressmen and -women. We have great people.But we need real unity and the leaders have to get supported, and if they don't get supported -- we're going to win anyway; don't worry about it. In fact, I probably do better without the kind of support that we're talking about because that's why I'm here in the first place.The convention is going to be terrific. We have great speakers. We have fantastic speakers. We have so many people that want to speak. You know, they give us, "Oh, they don't have enough." But we have so many people who want to speak.I have made so many enemies by saying, "I can't let you do it." But we want people that love our country and that want to be there and that love our party. And if they don't love our party, they shouldn't be there.Let me just tell you one little thing, which turns out to be a big, big thing. Defense is always most important. Right? We have to defend our country. But we're gonna have to build up our military again. It's really depleted. It's in bad shape. We're gonna build it up. We're gonna take care of our vets like you wouldn't believe because our vets are being mistreated horribly, horribly. Our greatest people.And we have a plan that's received universal fantastic reviews. And I'm the only one -- you know, I made a speech. Up in a great part of the world, OK? I won't even mention where. But I made a speech and during the speech I said, "Let's raise some money for the vets." We ended up raising $5.6 million for vets. For vets.I gave a million, and we ended up -- I could have just made a speech and left. And the press comes down, "Well, he should have given it here, he should have given it faster, " we have to vet the vets, you know that, right? They're groups -- who knows -- we have to check them out.But anyway we raised $5.6 million for the vets. I am so proud of it. I love the vets. I have received more accolades from the groups we're sending, groups that have never had money. A hundred thousand, two hundred thousand, in one case $1.1 million, in another case $250,000, $75,000, $50,000. All of these groups. I don't know, 30 something groups.It was so beautiful to see. I, you, all of us, we have received accolades. And I say all of us because this is a movement, folks. This is not like a normal situation. Look at this room. Look at the size of this room. And there are thousands of people -- and I got wiped out getting off the plane. It was raining and windy and I want to tell you -- this is actually beautiful, and now you know it's my hair because any hair that could withstand that wind -- the pilot -- it is my hair -- the pilot said wait about 10 to 20 minutes before you get out of the plane. I said why, he said 35, 45 mile per hour gusts, raining. I said no, we're not gonna keep these people waiting. We're gonna come out, we're gonna get out, we're gonna talk, we're gonna make America great again.And I'll tell you, I'm so proud of what's taken place. We really did that and so many other things, because it is a movement. It's a movement like nobody's ever seen before. I mean they actually say -- I watched Bill O'Reilly, said it's the single greatest -- good man. I'm on tonight but you guys are here so you're not going to see it but watch it later.I'm on tonight. I did a phone-in. It's always good when they take you by phone. That means you're hot. You know you can do it by phone. When you start getting, "I'm sorry. I won't be able to do it, I'm on a plane. I'm going to North Carolina." How about by phone? They don't do phones. Right? Did you ever see somebody call in to Bill O'Reilly? I never saw it.We do phone-ins to Meet the Press. We do phone-ins to Face the Nation. This week -- it's so much easier, folks, you sit home. Hi, how you doing? How's everything going? How's the world, how's the world. But it is a movement that we have going on. People have never seen anything like it. Pundits, that hate me -- of which there are many, we've made them look pretty bad -- don't forget. Don't forget this. Most of them said, "He's not gonna run." Then they said, "If he runs, well he won't do it. But he's gonna have fun. He's gonna leave in July." I mean, I only announced on June 16th. Give me a little credit."He's gonna have fun, he's gonna get some kicks, he's going to build his brand, " what I need more. More people to know who I am, right?And meantime I got killed. I lost the shirts because Macy's was so disloyal. I lost the ties because Macy's didn't like what I was saying about illegal immigration. OK, can you believe it? It's not like it's the most profitable thing I've ever done doing this. I don't care, it doesn't matter to me. It's nice when you don't have to care. But I don't care.What I care about is making America great again. That's much more important. Much more important.But I've lost -- if you think about it -- The Apprentice -- I mean not small stuff, it's big show, they came to me, they said we want to renew two more seasons. We want to renew you and we'll pay you anything. It's a lot of money in that stuff when you have a head job. Fourteen seasons of The Apprentice. I said today to the head person at Comcast -- he's a great guy -- Steve Burke -- no you're not, you've got to do The Apprentice. I said no, I'm gonna run for president.You can't do both. You're not allowed. Equal time. It's called equal time laws. I said, "Steve, I'm gonna run for president. At least I'm pretty sure." Because that was three months before. Because I want to tell you. It takes guts to do what we're all doing, but it takes guts to do what I'm doing, believe me. It takes guts. It's not easy.You get hit by dishonesty -- and not all reporters are bad, some are terrific. Some are honest and honorable and good and professional, but a lot of them are terrible. You get hit from 15 different directions on stuff that's very unfair to begin with. You get hit in so many different ways. And it started off with 17 people and then it gets down to one.They made the right choice. Am I doing a good job, by the way? Am I doing a good job? Because I'm a messenger.Essentially, I'm your messenger. The message is simple. We're gonna take our country back. We're gonna have everybody included folks. We want to include everybody. We want to help African-American youth. We want to help African-Americans. We want to help Hispanics, Latinos. We want to help everybody. We've got to help everybody. We've got to bring our country together. We've got to bring our country together. So important.When you look at what's going on and then you look at what's going on with ISIS where they're blowing up airplanes, where they're doing things that are just inconceivable, that hasn't happened since medieval times. We studied history. And we loved history. I loved history. Chopping off heads -- that medieval times. Today it's like a common occurrence.And these are animals. These are animals that have to be stopped. And I was against the war in Iraq. Now I was a civilian. I'm a businessman. It was a long time ago but I was against it. I was always against it. I didn't want to go to war in Iraq. I said I think you're going to destabilize the Middle East. I think you're going to have a lot of problems. Who would have known this is going to happen and on top of everything else what else did we get out? Other than a totally destabilization, a total mess? Thousands and thousands of our lives and other lives -- their lives.Thousands and thousands and thousands of our young people's lives. Destroyed. Tens of thousands of wounded. Where they're wounded so gravely -- they're the bravest people I've ever seen. They have a better attitude in life than I do. Some of these people, they have the best attitude I've ever seen. I work with them. We help them. And they have the best attitude I've ever seen. I've never seen anything like it. I'm serious. They have a better attitude about life in some cases than I do. These are amazing, amazing people.We shouldn't have done it. But what did we get out of it? We got ISIS on top of everything else. Now, we have a president that doesn't know what the hell he's doing. He doesn't have a clue, folks. And instead of staying there with a fairly small force, he announces to the world he's gonna take everybody out. And they'll be out by a certain date. And the only thing that was a little surprising was the enemy didn't believe him, because they said, "Nobody could be that stupid, to announce that we're gonna be out on a certain date."And then that date came and we were gone. We were gone. We shouldn't have been there. We shouldn't have destabilized -- Saddam Hussein was a bad guy. Right? He was a bad guy. Really bad guy. But you know what, he did well. He killed terrorists. He did that so good they didn't read him the rights. They didn't talk. There were terrorists who it's over. Today, Iraq is Harvard for terrorism. You want to be a terrorist? You go to Iraq. It's like Harvard. OK? So sad.So sad, OK? So sad. And we're going to take care of it, folks. We have no choice. We have no choice. It was when they cut off the heads, initially, we were all amazed. I think they overplayed their hand. And if they didn't, then we are all fools. Because we cannot let them get away with what they're doing right now terrorizing the world.We're going to be so strong, we're gonna be so tough, we're gonna be so vicious, and we're gonna knock them for a loop. We have no choice.So I just want to -- I wrote some notes coming in the plane because I was watching this tragedy that took place today and over the last few days. It's a tragedy. Because we're a country of law. We're a country of order. Other people have been so badly hurt by doing things so much less than Crooked Hillary Clinton. So much less. Right? SO much less.I mean, you look at so many people have suffered so gravely for doing so much less. Now does that mean that we expunge their record? Does that mean that we say, "All of you people that have been so guilty for so many years we can no longer accept that as a ruling." Because what we've done for her, and she was so much worse than anybody that we're talking about, does that mean that we have to exonerate everybody? Just take back the punishment that we gave them? Because we have a country that's supposed to be fair.When you hear what was said by the FBI director today and you listen to what he said and in he middle of it he was talking about so many different things. He talked about extremely careless. She was extremely careless. That's a tremendous word. You didn't have to be careless. You didn't even have to really know that what you were doing and you're guilty. Because we're talking about serious stuff. We're talking about the lifeblood of our country. We're talking about the safety of our people. The laws are very explicit. Stupidity is not a reason that you're going to be innocent, OK? It's not a reason.And I don't happen to believe that it was stupidity, OK? But even stupidity is not a reason and boy, what they've done.So I wrote this out, and I'm gonna read some of it to you. And I think it makes sense and I think it's important for us to understand.Today is the best evidence ever that we've seen that our system is absolutely, totally rigged. It's rigged.And I use that term initially when I was running in the Republican primaries and I was the first to use it. Then all of a sudden it became a hot term. Everybody was using the word, "rigged, rigged." But if you remember, I'd win Louisiana and I'd find out I'd be getting enough delegates, what happens? And places like Colorado which were so good to me, but all of a sudden we find out that they don't have the vote. And other things. OK. I used the word great. And frankly I'll be honest. If I didn't win in a landslide I wouldn't be standing up here. You'd be watching some politician who would lose to Hillary Clinton. Believe me. Believe me.I started winning -- I learned about rigged very fast. I learned. But I used the term "rigged." Then all of a sudden Bernie Sanders started using it and other people and now everyone talks about "rigged " but I'm gonna keep using it because I was the one that brought it up and I'm the one -- I asked a couple of political pros, "Did you ever hear the word rigged, it's a rigged everything?" And they really -- it hasn't been a thing used, I guess it has to be somewhere along the line, but it hasn't.But think of Bernie Sanders. Who's the most angry about this? I think the one with the most to lose is Bernie Sanders. Because honestly, he was waiting for the FBI primary. And guess what? He just lost today. The FBI primary. He lost the FBI primary. Bernie, my poor Bernie. Aw, Bernie, I feel so badly for Bernie. But you know what? A lot of Bernie Sanders supporters are gonna be voting for Trump. Because Bernie Sanders was right. Bernie Sanders was right about a couple of things.He's right about the system being rigged. But he's also right about trade. Our trade deals are a disaster. They're killing our jobs. They're killing our families. They're killing our incomes. I mean people in this room, many people in this room, and I'm going to fight for you because there's gonna be change fast. Many people in this room are making less money today than they made 18 years ago, effectively. And they're working two jobs instead of one, and this horrible, stupid Obamacare is a killer which is giving them part-time employment when they never had part-time employment in their lives.And the premiums are through the roof and the deductibles are so high that you'll never be able to use it unless you die a very vicious, long, slow death. OK? And it's going to explode in '17 anyway and we're gonna replace it before it explodes, and we're gonna replace it with something that's great and that's less expensive both for yourselves and for the country. It's a horror show. You have to see what I'm hearing.In Texas, going through Obamacare, Blue Cross Blue Shield raised 60 percent. A 60 percent increase in premiums, Blue Cross Blue Shield. Through Obamacare.Now, I hear that on November 1st, they're going to have an increase on Obamacare and health care that is going to set this country in motion. And I mean motion in a bad way. November 1st. So what Obama wants to do, because it's actually election-defying, it's election-changing. The numbers are bigger than Texas, 60 percent. The numbers are astronomical. And what they want to do is they now want to take those numbers and move them from November 1st to anytime after the election. And we're not letting them get away with it folks. We're not gonna let them get away with it.As I said, today is the best evidence we've ever seen that our system is totally rigged. Hillary Clinton put the entire country in danger, she put the entire country in danger. And Benghazi. And Benghazi and plenty of other things by the way. It was confirmed today that she routinely sent classified emails on an insecure private server that could be easily hacked by hostile foreign agents. And we leaned that people she emailed were hacked and probably I think maybe definitely, were hacked by these hostile actors.And these are bad but very, very smart people. A helluva lot smarter than what we have in Washington, that I can tell you.Our enemies may have a blackmail file on Crooked Hillary, and this alone means that she should not be allowed to serve as president of the United States.We now know -- just wrote this out -- we now know that she lied to the country when she said she did not send classified information on her server. She lied. She sent vast amounts of classified information including information classified as top secret. Top secret. OK?And this is where they said that she was extremely careless, and frankly I say grossly incompetent. She would be such a lousy president, folks. So sad. The lives of the American people were put at risk by Hillary Clinton so that she could carry on her corrupt financial dealings probably -- that's probably why she didn't want people to see what the hell she was doing.She went to extraordinary lengths to carry out an Enron-style purge of her emails. Thirty-three thousand emails are missing. And they say, "Oh she's fine, she's fine." Thirty-three thousand. And I've always been told you can't really get rid of an email. Have you ever heard this? That if we have the real super-geniuses that know this stuff, they say you can't get rid of emails. But we didn't use them. Because they didn't want to use them. They didn't want to use them.So like a criminal with a guilty conscience, Clinton had her lawyers delete, destroy and wipe away forever -- except I still say there are geniuses that can find them -- 30,000 -- think of this -- 30,000 emails. This again disqualifies her from service and -- just think of it. How can you have this?We know now that these deletions included emails that were work-related. One more big, fat beautiful lie by Crooked Hillary. Any government employee who engaged in this kind of behavior would be barred from handling classified information. Again, that alone disqualifies her and again, Bernie Sanders talked about bad, bad judgment, but he's not happy tonight folks, because now it looks like it's over for Bernie but you know what? I have a feeling they're gonna have a lot of people marching on Philadelphia. Let's see what happens. OK?I don't know about you but I always felt that Hillary Clinton would escape criminal charges for her dangerous and illegal behavior because I always knew, and I always see, and it's so sad, that our system is in fact rigged. It's totally rigged. OK? It's corrupt, it's rigged, it's disgraceful, you have a statement made today at 11:00 o'clock then you have a big speech by the president flying in on Air Force One with Hillary Clinton a few hours later, even though we have more people here than they do -- but we won't say that.So the A.G. met with the President -- had to -- before the announcement. I mean, how about that? Met with President Bill Clinton -- how about that deal? He's waiting around, he's waiting at the airport -- oh look, the A.G.'s coming, let me go say hello. Thirty-nine minutes -- I'm gonna talk about the grandkids. He's got two. I hear they're beautiful. I hear they're beautiful. He's got two. Now I have eight grandchildren and I will tell you. I can talk about them. And after I say, "Isn't he beautiful, isn't she beautiful, oh I love this guy." I love the kid, I love you. But after about a minute I can't go much longer. I want to get to business, right? For you, I want to get to business.But he didn't talk about it. He talked about golf. He talked about the grandkids and I would say that would take anywhere from 30 seconds to a minute. Seriously. Am I right? I mean, how long can you talk? "Miss Attorney General, I have the most beautiful grandchildren you've ever seen. Let me show you a picture. Isn't that great? Let me show you another picture. What do you think? I think they're beautiful. Aren't they beautiful? And they're smart. And they're great. They're great."Now he's starting to run out of words. That's 30 seconds. Now he's gonna talk about golf. I know more about golf than he does. You can't talk about golf that long. It just -- "Hey, Jack Nicklaus is the greatest, the greatest, right? He is. Tiger. When's Tiger coming back? Adam Scott's wonderful. He won at Dural. We love Adam Scott. Phil Mickelson we love."What are you going to go? You can't talk about it much longer. Couple of minutes, OK. I don't think they went over the swing, the technique or anything, right? The plane's too small. You think? Right?So give the grandchildren two minutes, give the golf three and a half minutes, that's a long time to be sitting there twiddling your thumbs, "What else are we gonna talk about? Let's talk about Hillary."Let's talk about Hillary. Did you see today Hillary announced that she may consider the Attorney General -- I'm not casting aspersions on anybody. Other than Hillary of course. But she may consider the Attorney General, who's ruling on her case now, now they're ruling on her case -- to continue forward as Attorney General.Now, how do you make that statement when they are going to rule? Because remember what happened. The FBI makes their recommendation and then still it's up to the Attorney General's office. So Hillary said today, at least according to what I saw on television, in which you can't always believe -- I found it hard to believe she'd say this -- but she said today that we may consider the Attorney General to go forward. That's like a bribe, isn't it? Isn't it sort of a bribe?I think it's a bribe. I mean that if she wins she's gonna consider extending the Attorney General and you know what? I'm not saying, I'm not knocking the Attorney General, what I'm saying is, "How can you say that?" It's a bribe.I mean the Attorney General is sitting there saying, "If I get Hillary off the hook I'm gonna have four more years or eight more years, but if she loses I'm out of a job." It's a bribe. It's a disgrace. It's a disgrace. She is laughing at the stupidity of our system. She is laughing and so is her husband Bill, laughing at what's going on. And they've been there before. You know it. They've been there between Whitewater and all of the others, they've been there. Look at her cattle futures. I mean she did better with cattle proportionately than people that have been in the cattle business all their lives and have made millions in the cattle -- she did better than they did and she never did it before. I wonder how that happened. She's Crooked Hillary folks.And now with all of that going on you have Obama campaigning. He was campaigning and this was set up a long time ago, and he knew that the FBI was going to do this because it would have been very uncomfortable for him to campaign with her actually if they didn't take a pass on Crooked Hillary. So they take a pass. They announce that they're not gonna press charges. Lo and behold a few hours later -- let's have a press conference, let's do a speech together.By the way her speech -- her speech was terrible. I watched it. How boring was that speech. Do we like Trump better? Do we like Trump better?Now let me just tell you because the word temperament comes in. He's got a very strong temperament. I get to tell you the truth. Chopping off heads. Losing thousands and thousands and thousands of people to these savage animals, right? We need somebody with a tough temperament, it's time.And I'll tell you whether it's on trade, whether it's on military, whether it's on that the border -- the last person these other countries want to see as President of the United States, because I'm gonna be fighting for you, not for them. I'm gonna be fighting for you -- is Donald J. Trump. The last person.The last person. So a very amazing and prestigious man -- I won't use his name but some people will know who I'm talking about -- I was in his house. And he said, "Donald, I thought you were totally wrong. I thought you were much too tough on China. I thought you were much to tough on Japan. I thought you were much too tough on Mexico, and all of these other countries that you're talking to with respect but I thought you were much too tough. And for a year I've been telling people, he's being too tough. I thought you were much too tough Donald on Saudi Arabia. Much too tough. I thought you were much too tough on Japan, " -- because as you know, and as you never knew before I got involved, we pay for a big portion of Japan's military. And I want them to help us out. This isn't 40 years ago, this isn't 30 years ago, they're sending cars to us by the millions and believe me we don't need more Iran deals done by incompetent people.We need smart people, we need good negotiators, and believe me I'll head it up and I know what I'm doing. But we have the greatest negotiators in the world and we don't use them. We use political hacks. So we take care of Japan. And we take care of Germany. And we take care of lots of places. South Korea. We have 28,000 soldiers on the line between North and South Korea. Order a television. See if you can buy one in the United States. You know what the answer is? You can't. Order other things. Many other things. See if you can buy them -- hey, who just moved to Mexico, right? Who just moved to Mexico from Indiana, the great state of Indiana that gave me another great victory. Carrier. So we don't make that any more.So Carrier's moving by the way. I would tell the people at Carrier, "Love you people. Every time you make an air conditioning unit and enjoy your beautiful factory you're gonna send it through that border which is now a very strong, and secure border, and you're gonna pay 35 percent tax." And you know what? They're not leaving. They're not leaving folks. They're not gonna leave.For instance, with the horrible deal we made with Iran. The horrible deal. The incompetent deal. Kerry should have picked up and walked out a couple of times. He should have walked when they said they won't give back our hostages until the deal is over. He should have walked. And then he should have walked, doubled up the sanctions, and by the time they landed back in the United States they could have turned the plane around, you would have had those hostages back instead of waiting for years.And he should have said one other thing, folks. We gave them back $150 billion. I would have said it differently. I would have said that -- you know my father used to say, "Son you're too tough. Take the lumps out. Soft, nice and easy." My father was great. Good salesman. Good builder. He loved to build houses. He was a good builder. I learned so much from him. And he was a great guy, a lovely guy. I loved my father. But he used to say, "Son, son. You're too tough. Take the lumps out."In the old days I would have said, "We're not giving you the $150 billion." And they would have been angry and we would have had lots of problems, right? I wouldn't say it that way anymore. My father taught me too well. I would have said, "Fellas." And it is all fellas, I hate to say. They haven't figured out that the women are smarter than the men, OK?They will. They will. It will take about 150 to 200 more years but they're gonna figure it out. Then we're really in trouble. Can you imagine?Because the Persians are great negotiators and they totally out-negotiated. So I would have said, "Fellas. We have a problem. We have a bad budget that was just passed. The omnibus budget. Disaster. We're going up to $21 trillion in debt. We don't have the money. I'm sorry. I apologize. I won't be able to pull it off, I'm not gonna be able to give you the $150 billion back, I can't do it. I want to do it. I want to do it so badly. And you're right, you should get it. You should get it all, you're right, but we don't have the money, I'm sorry."And they'll go crazy. And then we'll leave and we say the hell with them, double up the sanctions again and they'll say, "We'll drop the $150 billion." We have rank amateurs dealing for us. I have the greatest businessmen in the world, Carl Icahn many endorsing me. We're going to bring so much back. We have right now -- I say it's $5 trillion, the government says $2.5 trillion, but it's a lot. In other places, in other areas across the seas. That we want to bring back. My tax plan which cuts taxes for everybody, by the way, including business and middle class in particular...... it cuts taxes. We're gonna bring all that money back and that money's gonna be spent in the United States. Right now they can't get the money back so you have corporate inversions. You have companies leaving the United States to get their money. They can't get their money back. It's impossible bureaucratically and the taxes are so ridiculous that only a person that's really, really dumb would say send it back. So they leave the money over there and they take the company and they move the company to the money. Ever hear that one before? And it's happening all over the place. Take a look at what's going on.And it's going to end. We're one of the highest taxed nations in the world. We're cutting the hell out of taxes, we're cutting the hell out of these ridiculous regulations which are destroying our businesses, destroying our businesses.And we are gonna do it. So just to finish, because I'm so proud of what I wrote, I have to read it. Right? I love it. I actually love writing. People don't realize -- do you know how many number one bestsellers I've had? And "The Art of the Deal " I absolutely know how to write. I love reading this stuff. I love it.The question that really has to be asked is this -- what is Hillary Clinton's motive. And to that, I'm even gonna say, "Who cares?" She's put us in danger. And some people say that it's corrupt financially. I don't care what her motive is. All I know is she had a motive but she's erased so many emails we'll never find out. OK? Bill and Hillary Clinton raked in millions of dollars from foreign governments, special interests and international corporations in exchange for favors, folks. For favors. She's Crooked Hillary, don't you understand that?This is one of the most crooked politicians in history. These entities either funneled money into the Clinton Foundation or paid Bill Clinton lavishly for speeches. Got paid a fortune. At least 60 companies that lobbied the State Department during Clinton's tenure as Secretary of State donated a total of $26 million to the Clinton Foundation. OK? Twenty-six million, and she's dealing with these countries.Bill Clinton -- and by the way, many of these countries treat women and want to enslave women and they treat women horribly and as far as the gay community? They push them off buildings and they kill them and they execute them. And she has tens of millions of dollars from these countries. Believe me, I am better for the gay community. I am better for women than she will ever be on her best day. On her best day.Bill Clinton was paid a fortune to deliver a speech in Moscow, Russia while Hillary Clinton was in charge of the Russian reset. Another disaster. Bill Clinton was paid money by the Chinese government -- a lot -- and its supporters while Hillary handled China policy, and during this time China was stealing hundreds of billions of dollars in United States intellectual property. OK folks? We could go forever. ABC News said President Clinton accepted speaking fees from numerous companies and individuals with interests pending before Hillary Clinton's State Department.Oh that's nice. That's nice. International Business Times said, "Governments and corporations involved in the arms deals are approved by Clinton's State Department have delivered her State Department, " -- she's approving deals -- "have delivered between $54 million and $140 million to the Clinton Foundation." One hundred and forty million dollars. What's going on here? To the Clinton Foundation as well as hundreds of thousands of dollars in payments to the Clinton family.Then, when Hillary left the State Department she was paid $21.6 million for speeches delivered in less than two years. That's not bad. Twenty-one million dollars for making speeches. And she's a boring speaker. She's terrible. Think what I could make. Oh man what I could make. She's a terrible speaker. She got $21.6 million for speeches. And she refuses, because Bernie Sanders knows this better than anybody, she refuses to give up the text of the speeches. I don't know what's in there.And hey, I don't care if she gives it up. Because I understand her. And I understand many of the people that are her supporters. And by the way, many of them are friends of mine. And they're gonna own her, folks. They're gonna own her. Don't forget I used to be on the other side of the equation. I used to be establishment. Then on June 16th I ran and everyone said, "Oh, he's no longer establishment." He's not supposed to be running. He doesn't need our money."That's terrible. And I put up $55 million approximately in the primaries and won, big league, and then...... and I'm putting up money now but I'm raising a lot of money for the Party and it's good, it's good, it's really good. We're gonna win this thing. We're gonna take this country back from these thieves and these crooks and these horrible presidents, these phony presidents and I mean it when I say when Obama can take all of this time off, when you have bombings all over the place and you have ISIS as an example and all of the bad deals, when he can take that kind of time off to spend it with Hillary Clinton with the seal of the president in front as she stands there, she doesn't look presidential to me folks. I can tell you that. She doesn't look presidential to me.Hillary also had reason to hide her foreign policy disasters and the decisions that went into them. Her push for regime change in Libya, Egypt and Syria has been a total and complete disaster. Her Iraq policy has been catastrophic. She's unleashed ISIS across the Middle East with her bad decisions and her bad judgment. And she's gonna do nothing about it because she's a weak, weak person. She doesn't have the strength and she doesn't have the temperament, believe me.There's gonna be more of the same folks, more of the same. In 2009, before she took office, Libya was cooperating, Syria was under control, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence and Iran was being choked, absolutely choked, financially. They were dying. Now after she left, ISIS controls huge portions of Iraq. Syria and Libya committing unspeakable inhuman atrocities and trying to launch attacks against the West. Iran meanwhile has been placed on the path to nuclear weapons, has become a true power. They've become a true power in the Middle East and beyond.When they weren't a power we gave them power with that horrible, horrible deal. So Hillary Clinton's policies have spread ISIS and made Iran the dominant Islamic power in the Middle East. Hillary Clinton can't keep her email safe and you know what folks? She sure as hell can't keep our country safe. Can't do it.So I want to thank the people of North Carolina. It's been such an amazing run. Such an amazing run.We've had a lot of good times. We've had a lot of fun. We've had a lot of good speeches, we've had a lot of good times together, seriously, and look -- not Obama change. Remember Obama used to go, "We need change." It sounded so good. Everybody thought, and I actually thought he'd be a cheerleader for the country. I thought he'd be a cheerleader and he's really turned out to be a very divisive person. OK? We need change.I hate to use the term but we really do need change. We need fresh, tough, bold ideas. We need people that know what they're doing. We need people that aren't worried about political correctness. We can't use that term. We can't use that term.And I watched Obama a week ago spend a whole speech on talking about why he shouldn't necessarily have to say "radical Islam." Why he shouldn't do it. That's what the problem is and he doesn't even know it. I don't even think he knows honestly folks. I don't think he has a clue. I don't think he knows what the hell is going on. I don't think he knows what's going on.And you know, it's a very interesting thing, but I was watching yesterday and everybody is saying "ISIS, ISIS. ISIS. ISIS." You can have your definition. It has to do with territory and it has to do with other things and we can both give you definitions of ISIS and ISIL. But did you ever notice? People say ISIS except him. He says ISIL. ISIL. Because an ISIL is being driven back. And an ISIL is a JV, remember that? The JV. Man. If that's the JV I sure as hell don't want to see the varsity, right? Don't worry. Don't worry. If I win they'll be the JV and then they'll go down to first grade pretty soon folks.But he says ISIL and you know it's almost like he does it to make people upset. I've had so many people say why doesn't he just say ISIS? Forgetting about definitions. And actually some friends of mine that are very, very good on this subject say ISIS is actually more accurate. But who knows? But everybody says ISIS. Say ISIS. You'll be so nice. Right?"And ISIL will be driven back." It's always ISIL will be driven back and in the meantime it's a disaster. It's totally a disaster. Remember this and I've said it before, our military is depleted at a time when probably in the history of this country we need strong military. We are going to win North Carolina.We are going to get rid of these fools, these fools, that are running our country. They're fools. We are not going to go four more years that even the FBI today talks so horribly about. This person. To a point where you say how can you possibly say no charges? What they said, and what he said today was so bad. So here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna start winning again. We're gonna win so much you're going to be so sick of winning folks. You're gonna be so angry at me. You're gonna be so angry at me. You're gonna have your Lieutenant Governors here. You're going to have your head of the Supreme Court who's here. These are great people with great, great -- where are they? Are they around here someplace? They're here. Stand up. Come on, stand up. Beautiful.These are great, great people. With great reputations. I will tell you outside of North Carolina they have great reputations, OK? And you're lucky to have them.But here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna start winning again. We're gonna win at every level. We're gonna take care of our vets and we're really gonna take care of our vets and it's not even a question of money, it's a question of competence. We're spending so much money and it's corrupt. It's a corrupt enterprise. The Veterans Administration -- you look at what's going on in Arizona at the V.A. It's a corrupt enterprise. So we're going to start winning.We're going to win on the Second Amendment. We're not gonna let people take our guns away.We're gonna terminate Common Core out of Washington, we're gonna bring our education local. Local. So we can have our local people who love our children and who really understand our children give them the kind of education that we want. We're gonna repeal and replace Obamacare so quickly, so quickly. We're gonna create strong, strong borders, we're gonna build our wall, we're gonna stop drugs from flowing into our country like water. It's flowing into our country like water. We're gonna protect our states, we're gonna protect our youth and others from the drugs that are flowing through the Southern border.We are going to make the greatest trade deals anyone's ever made. We're going to bring our jobs back. We're going to bring manufacturing back. We're going to be selling things to other countries. We're not going to let countries come in and take advantage of us, take our companies out, sell their goods with no tax with no nothing and then when our manufacturers want to go to China and other places to sell their goods they can't get in -- their goods into the country. Because the Chinese say, "We don't want your goods."So they dump onto our land and they dump their steel and they dump their aluminum and they destroy our factories and they destroy so much and you know what folks? We're gonna end up doing our own products largely again. And you know what, let me tell you. Our products -- and I am not for isolation. This is only if they don't behave. But they devalue their currency. They make it impossible for our companies to compete. Every time we start to do well various countries that are grand masters, they start devaluing their currencies and countries go from boy I'm feeling good today to oh, here we go again. You can't compete. It's cheating. It's a big form of cheating.We are going to take care of our manufacturers and we are going to start making product again and let me tell you something. We may pay a little more for the product, but we will have all those jobs that make the product in the long run. We're going to be much better off.And a lot of that will come back. And again. No isolation. We're gonna have fair trade. We're gonna have free trade. One of these people sitting right up there asked me the other day, "What do you do -- you call it fair trade. You call it free trade. It's all good."I can give you ten different names for trade. Here's what I call it. We're going to make great deals for our country. I don't care if it's fair, if it's free, I don't give a damn what it is. We're gonna make great deals for our country. We're not going to let happen what's been happening. So folks, we're gonna start winning again. We're gonna win so much -- you're going to be so sick of me. You're gonna have the Justice call me. You're gonna have the Lieutenant Governor and the Governor call me. And say, Mr. President, the people of North Carolina are sick and tired of winning. You're winning too much. They're really starting to dislike you Mr. President, and I'm gonna tell the Justice and I'm gonna tell the Governor and the Lieutenant Governor, I'm sorry, we gotta keep winning. Because we're gonna make America great again.I love you North Carolina. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you.I'm going to be back here so much, you're going to be so sick of me. Please, please, please, don't let him come back anymore. No, we're going to have a good time and we're going to win Ohio. We're doing really well right now. We haven't started. They were saying because I financed my primary campaigns, over $50 million. I own money. So far we're doing well though, right? Have I been a good messenger? We have a movement. You know what Newt said -- you know what Newt said, we have a movement going. This is a movement like people have never seen before.I just heard the news, because it just happened, as you know, with the attorney general of the United States saying no problem.No problem. No problem.You know, I wrote out a couple of things about Hillary, Crooked Hillary, crooked, so crooked.She made so many false statements. Is she going to be brought before Congress or something? Is something going to happen? Is something going to happen? Because it's a disgrace.Hillary Clinton claimed that the reason for her illegal use of a private, insecure email, right, she claimed this, was that it was more convenient to use just one device. Oh. The fact is the FBI director said Hillary used several different servers, even though she said it was one, and numerous mobile devices to send and read emails.In other words, Hillary's secret email server existed for the reason we all know, to keep her emails from ever being read by the public. It had nothing to do with just wanting to use one device, OK? We understand that. But that's not what she said. She said something very different under oath. She said something very different to everybody.Now, by the way, how about the 33,000 emails that were wiped out, 33,000? How can you do 33,000 emails? And it was wiped out. All right, in a testimony to Congress, Hillary Clinton said she turned over all of her related emails, right. She said that. I saw that. The FBI director said Hillary failed to turn over several thousand work-related emails, including emails that were classified, right? Rigged system, folks.Remember I used to say it, I'm the one that brought that word up. Now everybody's using it. Bernie Sanders is rightfully using it, because, honestly, what they did with him was not good, not good.Now we have false statement number three, and there are many, I just don't want to bore you with too many of these, because, you know, one of those things. In her testimony to Congress, Hillary Clinton said there was nothing more classified on my emails either sent or received. Right? She said that. I heard it. You heard it. We all heard it.The FBI director said Hillary had sent or received more than 100 emails with classified information, including emails with confidential secret and top secret information. That's what they said. But she didn't say that.Hillary said fact number four, these are all lies. We say lie, lie, lie, lie -- lie! Dirty rotten liar. Right? Hillary said her private server -- that's what it is. And you know, I'll tell you something, folks. I'll tell you something. You know when it's going to be said straight? In November, you're going to get out and vote.Because when you look at terrorism, when you look at her decisions, when you look at the fact that she has got such bad decision-making ability, when you look at what's gone on during Obama's years.Look at what's going on with radical Islamic terrorism. We have a president -- and her -- except that I sort of shamed her into it, OK, just like I shamed her into not approving TPP. But if she ever wants, she'd approve that so fast. And that will do to you worse than what NAFTA did to you. OK?But she has got bad judgment. And you know who said that? Bernie Sanders. That Hillary Clinton has bad judgment. And No. 1, it's illegal what she did here, but it's also bad judgment.What did she do it for? She knows why. Most of the people here know why. False statement No. 4. Hillary said her private server was secure with numerous safeguards. They had no security breaches. No security breaches. Now they're saying everybody, you know -- does anybody have her information, you know?You know what's interesting? I've always heard that once an email gets sent, it's always out. You can never really -- you can really never wipe it out. I don't think anybody's looked too hard. Because when you wipe out 30,000 emails. I hear 33,000, actually. I hear two numbers: 30 and 33. Pick your choice. What difference?When you wipe out 30,000 emails. Thirty thousand. Now, I've always heard that if you, like, are in litigation, everything else, there's no way of really expunging those emails. You can't get rid of them. They're always with you if you have the right people looking. There are probably a couple of super geniuses in this room that probably would know exactly how to find those 30,000 emails. I don't think they looked too hard. Does that make sense to anybody? I've always heard you just can't get rid of them. OK.The FBI director said it is possible that hostile actors gained access to Hillary's personal email account and said she used her secure -- and think of this. She used her insecure email account and the email while traveling abroad in territory of sophisticated -- and these are highly-sophisticated -- adversaries. Right? The FBI director also said hackers successfully breached the emailaccounts of Hillary's friends. OK? They breached it. Her friends. Some friends. Our enemies likely have a blackmail file on her, which actually should disqualify her for even running for office, right? You know, what do you think about it.And then, in her testimony to Congress, Hillary Clinton said her attorneys conducted a rigorous review of her emails and said they went through every single email.But the fact is -- fact -- the FBI director said the lawyers doing the sorting for Secretary Clinton in 2014 did not individually read the content of all of her emails before destroying them. What's going on, folks? What's going on? I mean, it's -- it's very sad. You know, it's very sad. More. More. It's more. But you know, we have a crooked system. We have a rigged system. We have a dishonest press.Let me tell you, I was in North Carolina last night. I have to say, because I just love doing it. Thank you. I love you, too, man. It's a guy, but I love him. I love him. I love everybody here. I don't care. I don't care.We have a rigged system. We have a crooked system. I mean, we have a crooked system. But I was in -- talk about the press, OK? I love talking about how dishonest they are. If you're a Republican, you're a conservative. And I've heard it for years, but I had no idea. And when I was running and bing, bing, bing, knocking out one after another, right? Am I doing a good job for you folks? So I'm knocking out one after another. So when I'm out -- when I'm out running, and it was bad. I thought it was unfair. But you know, they had 17 people that basically they didn't like too much. Me, they liked the least by far. By far. And they'd hit you. But now it's all toward me.And I watch and I say things like there's a guy on "Meet the Press" called Sleepy Eyes Chuck Todd. Does anybody ever? The guy was dying on "Meet the Press" a year ago, year and a half ago. A while ago. He was done. Nobody watching "Meet the Press." In fact, they were talking about taking him off, everything else. Never treated me fairly.And then what happened was he called me, and he wanted me to do an interview. And I did it. And it was one of the highest rated interviews in the head of -- you know, in the history of "Meet the Press."But these are disloyal people. So, after about two days, he forgot about it. And then, he did a little bit more and I did -- "Meet the Press" is fine right now. I'm not going to do anymore interviews with him, because I watched him.So, I watched like yesterday. And I made the statement, something to the effect, I was talking about terrorism. And I said Saddam Hussein is a bad man. You heard this. Right, right? You heard this. He's a bad man. They wanted me to talk less. I spoke for 106 minutes. Long time. Long time, without notes, without paper, without anything standing up in front of four or five networks. I said last night -- I'm not reading and no teleprompters. I do like teleprompters actually. It's a lot easier. Let somebody come up and do what I do, right? I'd have about 12 people instead of 7,000 people. I said, very simple, I said Saddam Hussein is a bad man, bad guy. I said it three or four times. Really bad. I know what they're going to do.I said but one thing he's good at, they said this last night. They wanted me to talk about Hillary for 106 or for like for hours -- I said, I went 15 minutes. It was a long time, talking about a read the whole thing -- I wrote the whole thing.I mean, she's Crooked Hillary. That's all you have to know. She's crooked as hell. No, but it's unbelievable.So, but, listen, listen, listen. So, after a while we want to talk about terrorism, right? Because we'll beat Hillary. If we beat Hillary, what difference does it make? As she would say, what difference does it make? What difference does it make?It makes a big difference. What difference does it make? Remember the famous statement green dress. OK, so, green dress. Yes. Green dress. She said green pants suit.So, look, listen, so last night I said, it was an unbelievable crowd in North Carolina, standing ovations all over the place. But I said, "Bad guy Saddam Hussein. Bad guy." Then I said again, "Saddam Hussein is a bad guy, but he did one thing well. He killed terrorists." Right? It's OK. Just a quick statement.What I wanted to emphasize because I know if I didn't emphasize and say I like Saddam Hussein. So, I said I think three times, bad, bad, bad. In fact, I started repeating myself. I said I don't like that people are going to say, is that guy OK?So, what happened, what happened, I said it very strongly. Bad person. OK. Now it's over. And we talked about terrorism. We talked about trade. We talked about terminating Obamacare and replacing it with something great, which we're going to do.We talked about getting rid of Common Core and bringing our education locally and taking it away from Washington. We talked about voters. We talked about building a wall, right?We talked about our depleted military, right? We talked about our very depleted military.Build wall. Don't worry, we're going to build a wall. Don't worry about it, OK? We're going to build a wall. It's going to be a real wall. Such a low ceiling. We go a lot higher than that. And every time they fight us on that wall, it gets ten feet higher, folks, believe me. Believe me. No, we're going to stop -- we're going to stop the drugs from coming in. Just in case -- just in case you didn't know. So, the border patrol agents, 16,500 border patrol agents endorse Donald Trump. They know what's going on. They know what's going on.And they're job is much easier now than when they're with me, because when they're with me, they're going to be working hard. Right now, they just stand there and say they'll go on through. Hello. Go on through. Welcome to the country, right? We'll take care you have for the rest of your lives. So, it's a lot different.And also, Sheriff Joe. We love Sheriff Joe. Sheriff Joe endorsed Donald right at the beginning. Right at the beginning.So, we have a situation, right, where we go on and we continue to go on and we continue to make speeches, and we continue to waste time because the politicians aren't listening, right? They're not listening. I made a speech and this speech last night was good.What happened? I wake up in the morning, and we had -- you had to see this crowd. This crowd was unbelievable, the energy.But all the crowds had -- I wake up, I turn on the television. "Donald Trump loves Saddam Hussein. He loves Saddam Hussein." And I was just asked a question by the "Cincinnati Inquirer". "Mr. Trump, is it true that you love Saddam Hussein?" Essentially, like, sort of that, you know? I said, "That's not what I said. That's not what I said."So that's the narrative that goes around. I actually put a press release out, and now the people that saw it that was great, but they are liars. These are bad people. These are bad people.And what I did say -- and what I did say is that he was good at one thing. He was really good at killing terrorists. He didn't wait around. Do you think they gave the terrorists trials that lasted 18 years? And then after 18 years, if they had the right lawyer, they'd erect a statue in honor of the terrorist, right? Not with Trump.So I said, bad guy, really bad guy, but he was good at one thing. He killed terrorists. Next day, Donald Trump loves Saddam Hussein.I don't love Saddam Hussein. I hate Saddam Hussein, but he was damn good at killing terrorists, and now terrorists, the people that want to be terrorist, they go into Iraq, and I said last night it's the Harvard. It's the Harvard University. It's the Harvard of terrorism. That's where you want to learn to be a terrorist, you go into Iraq. Before -- boom, you're a terrorist. Boom!Look at the problems we have right now. We are a very unsafe nation. We're allowing people to pour into our country. We are allowing people to pour into our country. We have no idea who they are. These are people coming from the Middle East. We're taking in Syrian refugees. By the way, I have a bigger heart than anybody, and we'll work withthem, and I'll get other people to put up the money because we owe $19 trillion and now with the kind of budgets that get passed and we're going up to $21 trillion. We don't have the money, but I'll get the Gulf States to put up the money and we'll supervise it, and we will build wonderful -- as wonderful as it can be in Syria, safe havens. We'll build safe zones and we'll keep them there, we don want them here. We don't want them here.They're moving people into Ohio that you people don't even know about. They're moving people into Ohio that very well this could be one of the great Trojan horses of all time. They're moving people into Ohio like nobody's ever seen in every state. And you don't know and your government officials don't know and nobody knows what the hell is happening to our country.And we have a president that won't issue the words radical Islamic terrorism, and it's a real problem. It's a real problem! If you don't say what the problem is, you're never going to solve the problem, right?So I watched these media people, very dishonest people, and I watched that and then I also watched it, and I get the standing ovations and I think it was on all three. I think it was on FOX live, and FOX was actually very nice to me, I must say, but it was to FOX live.It was on CNN live. CNN's terrible to me. Terrible.No, they're -- they're dishonest. Did you ever see it where they'll have, like, seven people have Jeffrey Lord. I love Jeffrey Lord, and I don't watch it anymore.In life, when something is unpleasant, don't watch it. Turn something else, OK? That's what I do. I don't watch it anymore.When people treat you unfairly, turn your back or go some place else or knock them on their ass, one or the other.So -- I mean, CNN over the weekend, I'll give you an example. So one of my guys who is married to a Jewish woman, this is a very fine person, Dan Scavino, he put out a tweet talking about Crooked Hillary Clinton and on the tweet was a star. A star, like, a star, and I said because when I looked at it I didn't think anything.All of a sudden, it turned out to be in the minds of the press only because it could have been a sheriff star. It could have been a regular star. My boy comes home from school, Baron, he draws stars all over the place. I never said that's the Star of David, Baron, don't. So, it's a star. Have you all seen this? It's a star! And itactually looks like a sheriff star and behind it they had money. Oh, but there's money behind it. Actually, they're racially profiling. They're profiling, not us, because why are they bringing this up? Why do they bring it up?So -- anyway, so Dan is a wonderful guy. A really good guy. I didn't get angry at him. I said, Dan, that' a star. Don't worry about it. He said I'm so -- CNN, from morning until night, bigger than the FBI with Clinton who is crooked as a you know what, bigger than the FBI, all weekend long, CNN dishonest as hell, CNN morning to night I have tweets where they're saying CNN won't talk about anything, but the star. They say it's the Star of David, all right?I have a son-in-law who is Jewish, Jared, who is a great guy. My daughter is Jewish. I have grandchildren who are Jewish, OK? And I love them. I love them. And these are great people.Ivanka married a Jewish guy who's brilliant, who is wonderful, who's got a great heart. They have kids, beautiful kids, beautiful kids.So, they took this star, it could have been a star for anything. To me it was just a star, but when I really looked it looked like a sheriff star, but CNN started this dialogue going it's the Star of David, and because it's the Star of David, Donald Trump has racist -- these people, are sick, folks. I'm telling you. They're sick. They're sick.I'll tell you, some day, I'm going to tell you the real story of CNN, but I'm not going to tell it yet. But they're sick. I don't watch it. Don't watch it. You know what? Don't watch it anymore.And I have to say, FOX is tough on me. Bill O'Reilly, a lot of these guys, but at least they're fair, you know? They're tough, but they're fair and MS -- nobody watches MSNBC so I can't tell you. Nobody watches it, but I think they're better, but I hear they're better than CNN, OK?They call CNN, the Clinton News Network. Clinton -- think of this -- think of it, seriously! So, the star which is a star, and not the Star of David, when they told me the Star of David, you have to be kidding. How sick are they?Actually, they're the ones with the bad tendencies when they can think that way. They're the ones. Remember what I said, but there's money around the stars and therefore, you know what that represents.These are sick people. They're bad people. They're bad people and what you do is don't watch CNN anymore. I don't watch it anymore. And they've done it. I like Anderson Cooper and I like a couple of people and mostly, it's just negative and they sit around the table. They talked badly about Donald Trump. What's to talk badly about?So we have unbelievably dishonest media, so think about that. You have the star, which is fine. You shouldn't have taken it down. They took the star down. I said too bad, you should have left it up. I would have rather defended it. Just leave it up. And no, that's not a star of David, that's just a star. It shows you about corrupt Hillary, corrupt Hillary, but she sent it out. That started the dialogue.You know why? Because she wanted to get off the FBI. You know who got hurt worse by the FBI than anybody? Bernie Sanders because he was waiting for the FBI to make him the nominee, and it didn't work out!And he's the other one, you know. He copied my language a little bit, but he was starting to say with the superdelegates that the system is rigged, and you know what's happening? They're doing polls -- I just saw a poll, 22 percent of the Bernie Sanders voters are coming to Trump. It's interesting. I don't know.I don't know. Who knows? Who knows?And we're having a good time. Let me just tell you, the other thing I got criticized last night, I thought it was really one of the better speeches. You know, hey, do I give a good speech?But I thought it was one of the better speeches. The place was packed. You know, they never show how many people.Can you imagine if I ever had an empty place? It would be the biggest story in the news business. The place was packed, right?Everybody was having a great time, considering the subject is no good because the subject is about our country and our country's in trouble. Between the debt, between the joblessness and let me tell you, with the phony 5 percent numbers you hear about unemployment, it's a phony number. It's a phony number.  It's a number that -- when somebody looks for a job -- and I don't want to have you raise your hand because you may be embarrassed. I'd be a little embarrassed.Somebody looks for a job. And they give up. And they're great people. They're unbelievable. They've worked all their lives. They can't find a job, right? And they give up. Now they're considered statistically employed.So we show this phony number. And on that, I don't blame Obama so much because, frankly, this was to make presidents look good and make politicians look good, which is not an easy thing to do, OK, because they want to show, oh, how wonderful the economy -- so just as I was getting off the plane today, we announced trade deficit numbers for month, which were, like, almost record-setting. We have trade deficits that are worse than ever before.All I've done for years is talk about trade deficit, trade -- I used to talk about Japan. Now I talk more about China, but it's still Japan. It's everybody! It's everybody. We don't make good deals with anybody.But last night, I was talking about trade because I love it. It's my favorite subject, that and strengthening our military and taking care of our vets. They're my favorite subject.No, they're my -- they're my favorite subjects.Other than my children or my grandchildren. I could talk about my grandchildren -- let's see. He was 39 minutes in the back of a plane talking about his -- ladies and gentlemen, the president is going to talk about his grandchildren. Well, I have two. He has two. I have eight, he has two.But he talk about -- how long are you going to talk about them? I'll bet they're beautiful, two beautiful children. So he says, They're beautiful. They're really smart. They're really good. I love them so much. They're unbelievable. You know, one is brand-new, beautiful little baby.OK, after about a minute, what can you talk about? Oh, you can say, Here's a picture. Look. Look. OK. So that's one minute out of the 39-minute time, right?Then we talk about golf, right? So you say, Jack Nicklaus -- who endorsed me. I love Jack. I love Jack.He's the greatest. Jack. Did you know Jack endorsed me? Do you know how young Jack was when he won the Ohio State championship? Jack Nicklaus. He's the greatest guy. And he's a friend of mine. And he endorsed me. I didn't ask for the endorsement. I don't want to do that. I feel, like, sort of guilty when I ask these people for endorsements. I don't know to do that.Jack endorsed me! I said, Thank you, Jack. I appreciate it. He said, Well, you're going to do a great job. You're got go shake things up. Now, when you talk about winners, is Jack a winner? Right?Did you see the U.S. Open was on the other day. I think Jack Nicklaus was in the top -- the top 10, like, I think it was 18 times. He was in the top -- I've never seen anything like it. His record is unbelievable. He won it four times, top 10 18 times. I mean, this guy is a winner! Right?So when I get endorsements from Jack Nicklaus -- Bobby Knight! Bobby Knight!Bobby Knight. Bobby will be speaking at the convention. We have so many people. We have such a great convention planned. But I just have to go back. So this is the final thing. So last night, I made a great speech, standing ovation, everyone crazy. Nobody talks about the crowd. Every time I go home, my wife asks, How was the crowd? Again, they didn't -- they never show the crowd.I tell you, they only show when we have protesters. I love my protesters! Don't we have any damn protesters today?But I love my protesters because the cameras spin around at angles that you wouldn't believe. They do somersaults around to -- they look like a sausage because I went -- my first two speeches, I had no protesters. And every time I went home -- big crowds. And every time I went home, I said, Could you see the size of the crowd? No, I didn't.Now, you can hear the size. Like, last night you heard the size, right? Many, many more than the president and Hillary got!But so -- so people would say, Well, I hear it. You know, they hear that very -- you know, that sort of humming sort of -- that's not, like, from 12 people.By the way, the section I just left last week, wonderful congressman and his wife, and I said to him, I won't use -- I don't want to embarrass anybody, but I said, Could you endorse me? He said, Even if I don't like you, I would endorse you. You know why, Mr. Trump? You have a 29-point lead in this section of Ohio -- 29 points. I said, You're right. You have to endorse me!We're going to take care of our miners and we're going to take care of our steelworkers! Hillary's not. She's going to put you out of business because, if she ever won, she would sign TPP, which will make NAFTA, which was signed by her husband, which -- in my opinion, the worst trade deal in the history of this country, and it's not even close, signed by Bill Clinton! And he didn't suffer from it. It was everybody that followed him that suffered from it.It's going to be so easy. So last night, we had this -- and then I wake up, and I hear, number one, I love Saddam Hussein. I hate Saddam Hussein. But I love Saddam Hussein, according to the press, because they're dishonest as hell. They heard what I said.And number two -- and they said it very, very strongly. They said, He should have spoken about Hillary Clinton longer.Now, I wrote out, like, four pages that I wrote out. And I read it point by point by point! And after a long time -- I don't know, many, many minutes -- you know, I got thousands of people. And this really stupid guy, Chuck Todd -- I won't use his name. I refuse to use his name. I refuse to call him sleepy eyes! I'm not going to call him sleepy eyes. But he's talking about, He had an opportunity to hit Hillary Clinton!I -- did you see what I did to her last night? I just went -- am I correct? I mean, it got to a point -- it got -- I was hitting her so hard. And the problem is I'm a professional. And I'm hitting her so hard. And I know it doesn't mean anything because the system rigged and it's fixed and it's broken!So I'm doing it, and I'm doing it because I feel I have to do it. And it's sort of boring to do it, to be honest with you. So I didn't want to -- and I wanted to get on to the military and to vets. I wanted to get on to these other subjects. I wanted to get on to terror, OK? Because we are going to experience things that you won't even believe, folks. Watch the predictions, lots of predictions, right? And I wanted to get on to terror.One of the reasons the women are liking me a lot lately is because...And they love Ivanka and they love Melania! And Melania and Ivanka and Eric and Tiffany and Don are going to be speaking at the convention! So we're going to...And by the way, so just to finish, by the way -- so I get hit this morning, like, He had the opportunity to go after -- everyone said I made a great speech.I'll tell you how bad my speech was last night. CNN covered it from point to point without a commercial! Fox covered it practically from beginning to end! Others covered it from -- that's how bad my speech was yesterday! That's how bad!You know, if it were bad, folks -- these guys, they don't care about polls. They don't care about anything. They only care about one thing. What's the one thing? Ratings! Ratings!But you know, after a while, we have to talk about other things. OK. So here's the story. We're going to make America great again.We're going to make America great. We're going to take our country back for everybody, not for us, not for this room, not for this room, not for the overflow room, not for the people outside. We're going to take our country back for everyone.We're going to take it back for African-American youth, who have a 59 percent unemployment rate, by the way, 59 percent. We're going to take it back for African-American youth, who have a 59 percent unemployment rate and have no chance! They have no chance in our society.You know who I just spoke to? Big Don King. Big Don King. Just spoke to him 10 minutes ago. I said, Don, I'd love you to speak at the convention because you know what? You beat the system. And he's a friend of mine, Big Don, greatest boxing promoter of all time. In fact, somebody said -- and Mike Tyson endorsed me, as you know, and Don King endorsed me.You know what Don King did? He owns a newspaper. He endorsed Donald Trump for president, Bernie Sanders for vice president! How do you like -- and he put a big ad in his paper, his paper! He wants Bernie Sanders for vice president. I said, That's a new one. That's -- big Don King. So...Wow! That's -- that -- I like that, too. We like -- we like Newt.And I'll tell you what. Newt -- Newt has been my friend for a long time. And I'm not saying anything and I'm not telling even Newt anything, but I can tell you, in one form or another, Newt Gingrich is going to be involved with our government. That I can tell you.No, Newt's going to be involved, if I can get approval from his wife. That may be -- that may be tough, but that's OK.And you know, I have somebody else very special here. So I have wonderful children. And you know, I'm lucky. They were smart. They were born smart, OK? They were smart. God was good. And they went to great schools. And they did well, and they're in business and do well, and they feel so strongly about what I'm doing. They don't even like it in terms of doing it themselves. They love what they're doing.And my one boy is here, Eric Trump. Eric.And you know what I did? Let me tell you a little story. These -- I love this -- I love this crowd. Isn't it nice when you don't read from a speech?The nice part is -- let me tell you -- so I go to Scotland, and I know I'm going to get killed when I got to Scotland because the press is so dishonest. I went to make sure that my boy -- who -- I bought Turnberry four or five years ago, and we're doing this massive renovation, just like we're going to be opening the old post office in October.We're a year ahead of schedule. I could open it sooner, but I want to get it as close to the election as possible. Does that make sense to you? In fact, I could open in August! I'm delaying the opening because I want it to be so close because when I open it, even if I delay it a month or two -- the hotel's going to open sooner.But I want to say we're more than a year ahead of schedule and we're under budget, and the product is even better than I said it was going to be, right?Maybe I'll open it on November 7th, the day before the big day! Oh, we're going to have -- and the press will be there. They'll be there by the hundreds. But they won't say we're under budget. They won't say we're ahead of schedule. But that's OK. People know!But what happened is -- we have children. And I want to support my children. I think I've been a good father. And I want to support my -- so I put Eric Trump -- like, individual things -- Ivanka's been great. Don's been great. Tiffany's just starting now. She just is graduating from college. Baron has great potential, but he's 10, you know? But he's got great potential.But I put my children as they grow a little bit older in charge of different jobs. And I put Eric in charge of the great Turnberry resort in Scotland where they -- home of the British Open, which now they call the Open Championship. And Eric spent the last year going back and forth. He'd spend two days over there, then come back, then go back and fight with contractors, and he got great contractors and they did an unbelievable job. I've been hearing about it.So what happened -- but just to show you how -- no, no. Just to show you how dishonest Hillary Clinton is, and the press -- so I go out. We have the bagpipes, we have everything, we have a ribbon cutting on the ninth tee, on the beautiful ninth tee overlooking the ocean, and the beautiful lighthouse, one of the greatest courses anywhere in the world -- we rebuilt the course. We rebuilt everything. We rebuilt the hotel. It's great.And that was the day that Europe had the big turn, where U.K. left, right? They left.And instead of building these wonderful places where they can ultimately go back to their homeland, where they want to be -- anyway, they're just being forced -- so Germany is a disaster right now. Sweden, parts of Sweden. I mean, things are really bad.So I said, I think they're going to -- and by the way, the odds were 20 percent that I'd be right, 20 percent, because they said it's not going to happen. They're going to approve, and that's going to be the end of that.I was right! They broke away. They broke away. I was right. And then the next day, they said, Oh, Trump was right. The same thing could happen in the United States.Because we're tired of incompetent people! We're tired of incompetent leadership and incompetent people! And Hillary Clinton -- I said bad judgment. She's incompetent, OK? She's -- the only good thing she's ever done is get out of trouble when anybody else would have been in jail by now! That's the only thing that I've ever seen her do that was a great job! I got to give her credit!I got to give her credit. I got to give Bill Clinton credit for going to that plane and saying for 39 minutes, he talked about his grandchildren and he talked about golf. There's no way you can do that. I told you, two minutes for the grandchildren, two minutes for golf. We got 35 or 36 minutes left! What are we going to -- let's talk about Hillary!And Hillary then talks about, I think I'd reappoint the attorney general! And you're waiting for a decision by the attorney general! And you're saying you're going to give her a job! You're not allowed to do that! That's bribery, folks!And then the attorney general comes out -- as Newt said, but the attorney general comes out and the attorney general says, No charges! It's bribery, wouldn't you say? It's bribery! You're not supposed -- she said she's going to reappoint the attorney general, and the attorney general is waiting to make a determination as to whether or not she's guilty!And boy, was that a fast determination. Wow! Should have waited a lot -- at least waited a little bit longer. Don't just come out with one or two sentences. Talk about it a little bit!We have so many press. We had over 400. Hope -- the legendary Hop -- how many, 400. 400, 450. It was unbelievable because they were all there for Brexit. And they were all there to see what was going to happen. Will the U.K. break away?And now that's about six hours old, so they're bored. They want the next story. So the next story is Trump. So I go there. And all of a sudden, I start hearing these things! What's Trump doing in Scotland? Oh, he's playing golf.OK. So I have a news conference. It was a great news conference. Even Newt said that was a great news conference, right? I did a good job, Newt? When Newt says I did a good job -- he's a very critical guy. He sometime says, I don't like what he's saying, but there I did a good job, right?So, I'm taking questions. One of the questions was, Mr. Trump, if the pound goes down, how will Turnberry do? So, I say -- I didn't bring this up. I said, look, here's what happens. If the pound goes down, Turnberry will do very well, because a lot of people are going to travel to the U.K. They will come to Scotland. Turnberry is going to do well if the pound goes down.OK, period. That's it. I answer the question. Next day, it's in an ad by Crooked Hillary Clinton and I'm all over the place, but they don't show the question. It's -- here's the thing. They start off, did you hear Donald trump? Well, all he talked about was his resort. And they show me. They don't show the question. If the pound goes down, Turnberry is going to do very well. OK?Then, they gave me a golf club. I said I don't want to touch it. I don't want to touch golf. I don't want to -- I'm leaving. I inspected the hotel. I inspected the course. I said, Eric Trump, you did a great job. I'm getting the hell out of here now, because I want to be back campaigning. I want to get out. Congratulations. My boy, I love you.Come up, Eric, come up. I love you, my boy. I love you.I said that's my 6'6'' boy, but he's always going to be my boy, right? So, I said, Eric, I'm out of here. I'm going. I'm leaving. I got to go. But they said, Mr. Trump, would you like to hit the first ball? No, I don't want to touch your club, because I know, if I touch a club, these horrible, horrible human beings, plus the Hillary Clinton thousand-people staff she has, right, will come up with a clip of me holding a golf -- so I don't want to touch it.So we cut the ribbon. I inspected the property. I'm very proud of the job he did. Unbelievable job. And I went around, and I got out of there. I was in Scotland one night. That's not easy. It's a long trip, right? I was there one night, and I was out of there. So here's what happens.The next day, the news comes on. Donald Trump went to Scotland in the middle of the campaign to play golf. But here's what's worse. They took my statement on the pound -- if the pound goes down, Turnberry is going to do great. They don't know I'm answering a question.So, everyone thinks I'm bragging and I want the pound to go down. OK. But here's the worst. But that crooked, crooked disgusting group that works for Hillary Clinton -- now, remember, I never touched a club. I never -- they show me hitting a ball, Donald Trump playing golf in Scotland during the, you know, troubles and everything else of the world.And they put it in an ad. But the picture was from two years before at a different course. The only good thing -- no, it's true. And they said playing golf at Turnberry. So, two good things happened out of it. Number one, the head of Turnberry called me up. He said, sir, did you take an ad because we're swamped with business? I said, really?That's good, right? That's good. And the other thing is the swing looked good. They didn't put one of my bad swings. I have them too. The swing actually looked good. So, Hillary, thank you very much. But you know what. How dishonest is that?So they show me playing golf at Turnberry, and I didn't play golf. That was two years -- the picture was 2 years old or more. In fact, it was more. You know how I can tell it was more? I was even thinner. I said, man, I like that. Actually, I never went too wild, because I love the swing and I look thin. Well, relatively thin, OK?But I just want to say, this young guy, my daughter, my other son, Don, my wife, who puts up with a lot with all of that we're going on -- this is big stuff. This is big stuff. But my family has been so -- my sister, who is incredible, my sister, who is a federal judge, court of appeals, my other sister Elizabeth, my brother Robert, who is a great guy. I have one brother who passed away.But I have great children. Tiffany has been so amazing. My kids, my family have been so unbelievable. And this is not easy for them. They go out. Mostly, people love it, but some people don't. You know, the one thing that's interesting, and I told this to Eric on the plane -- my wife said, you know, when you go out, you never -- everybody loves you. Now most people love you, but there's people that don't. You never had those people before.I said, but we have to make America great again. And, ultimately, hopefully, my biggest dream is to have those people love me, too, not because of me, but because we're going to do such a great job. Does that make sense? Right?So I will introduce -- I will introduce Eric Trump. Eric Trump did an unbelievable job. He's doing an unbelievable job. And he was pushed into the world of politics not because he wanted it, but because I said good luck on television tonight. You're doing the show.So, Eric Trump, everybody!Thank you, Eric. Thank you. Thank you to your brothers and sisters. And thank you to everybody. And the family has been just incredible.So when I was getting off the plane, I just wanted to tell you, a couple good things, a couple bad things. And, you know, about the country, what's going on.Terrorism is just at a horrible, horrible level. People don't feel safe. Polls are coming out saying they feel more unsafe right now than they have at any time for many, many years. We're going to make you feel safe again. Remember that. You're going to feel safe.I'm very, very proud of the fact that when we ran, that in the history of the Republican Party, we got the most votes ever, by a lot, almost 14 million votes. More than anybody that's ever run. And I'm very proud of that fact.And maybe more important, and I want to thank the RNC and Reince Priebus. He's been great. I have to tell you. Reince has been really great. And I mean that 100 percent. He's been so amazing. And he works hard. He'll fly, if there's an event in California. He will fly on that plane and will be there, and say, weren't you just in Washington? Yes, I flew to be at the event. I mean, the guy is really terrific.But it was just announced that the Republicans in terms of the primary voters, final count, final count, 62 percent up from four years ago. It's unheard of. That's an unheard of number.That is an unheard of -- did you know that, Newt? That is an unheard of number. The Democrats, ooh, there was a mosquito. I don't want mosquitoes around me. I don't like mosquitoes. I don't like those mosquitoes. I never did. OK, speaking of mosquitoes.Hello, Hillary. How are you doing?So the Democrats, the Democrats were down with all the Bernie Sanders stuff and everything you hear and all this.And, by the way, our crowds are so much bigger that it's not even close. But with all of the things you hear, the Democrats are down 21 percent. From four years ago. There's no real enthusiasm. They had enthusiasm for Bernie. But Bernie was outflanked by the establishment. He was really outflanked. He never had a chance.And, frankly, I wouldn't have had a chance except we were winning by such large numbers. If we didn't win -- I mean, Florida, 21-point victory, won 66 of 67 counties. New York, Pennsylvania, Connecticut. You look at all of these different places. Rhode Island, Maryland, Delaware.We had a group where we won every single county in every single state. In California, I got 78 percent of the vote. And there were still lots of names on there.And you know, when you have the largest number of votes in the history of the Republican Party, and we had 17 people running, folks. That's a big difference as opposed to two or three or four. We had 17 people. So it's impossible to win that number when you have 17 people. And we won easily. More than Ronald Reagan, who we love. More than Richard Nixon. More than the Bushes. More than Dwight D. Eisenhower, who did have a lot to do with the Second World War victory, in all fairness, right.So we had great things. So that was a great thing. The bad part is this. In coming off the plane, I heard that our trade numbers are a disaster. A disaster. Getting worse than ever before. We're losing so much money. We have trade deficits that are so massive. Not only with China, not only with Mexico, which is massive.I take my hats off to the leadership of Mexico for the job they have done on us. They treat us like we're babies. They treat us, at the border and with trade. You ever see the companies that are moving to Mexico? I think I won Indiana largely, because Carrier air conditioning company -- I love Indiana. Well, I also won, because of the great Bobby Knight, right? Bobby Knight.I told you that story where Bobby called up. He said, sir, you have to run for president. That was a year before I did it. You have to run for president. I said, is this really Bobby Knight? I didn't know Bobby. And then when I ran, when I got to Indiana, somebody said, do you think you could ever get Bobby Knight? I said I think so. I pulled up the stack and I had his paper and I had his number. And he picks up the phone. He goes I have been waiting for you to call. He is a cool dude. He won 900 games. He won three championships for Indiana. He won the Olympics. He won the Pan-Am games. He had the last undefeated season in college basketball. He is a winner.Jack Nicklaus, total winner. And Jack, you know, in Ohio, I mean, to me, having his endorsement is so great, but Jack and Bobby, we have so many unbelievable champs endorsing, so many unbelievable champs. So, here's the story, folks. We're going to turn it around. We're going to bring our jobs back to this country. And we're going to bring them back big league.We're not going to let companies -- we're not going to let companies leave our country without their being consequences, consequences. As an example, when Carrier left, and they left 1400 people, and those 1400 people, many of them followed me all over Indiana. They love Trump, because I'm the only one that spoke their language.They were fired like dogs. They were fired by a mid-level management guy. They had jobs, some of them, for 30 years. They were fired viciously, like you never saw anything like it. And fortunately, somebody had a cell phone, or we wouldn't be -- I probably wouldn't be talking about it right now. It was all over the news and it made a big impact.And I have been talking about it long before I went to Indiana. These other guys just started talking about it, when they arrived. To try and win, because that was going to be the firewall, remember the firewall. Trump is going to win New York, but Trump is going to win also Pennsylvania, this other states, Connecticut. We're doing great in Connecticut too, by the way.But Trump is going to win all this states. We agreed by, when we get to Indiana that is the firewall. Trump's not going to win the firewall. And we won the firewall in a landslide. That was a big win.And then everybody just said. You know what they said? We just can't take it anymore. We're leaving. They got, that was the end of that, right? But we have had an amazing period of time. But what I would have told Carrier air conditioning, and I would if I could get their time, maybe there is still, I would have said enjoy your plant. Hot weather, pretty hot up here right now by the way too, hot weather. I said, enjoy your plant. Make lots of air conditioners. But when you start selling your air conditioners to our very strong border, because we're going to have a strong border, and we want people to come in. I want people to come in to the country, they're going to come in by the thousands, but they're going to come into the country legally, right, legally.So I'm going to say meeting, myself, or my rep, I always kid with this, I say to my wife, but I want to call Carrier. And she'll say you're the President of the United States. You're not supposed to be calling an air conditioning company, but I say it's so much fun and I'm so good at this stuff. So I'll get somebody. I'll get Carl Icahn to call. That would be pretty good. I have so many people endorsing us. But we call up Carrier. We say enjoy your new plant. I hope you have great success. But every single time you make a beautiful air conditioner and you want to sell it to the United States, there's going to be a 35 percent tax on that air conditioner coming into it. Ok?Now, a lot of conservatives, you know, these characters that have been fighting me, never Trump. Never Trump. Oh, never Trump. These are people, here's a guy, you talk about a great conservative, but he gets it. Some of these people don't get it. Never Trump. By the way, never Trump is disappearing rapidly.I'll tell you one thing, folks. I'm not saying it's Newt, but if it's Newt, nobody's going to be beating him in those debates, that's for sure, right? Nobody. Nobody's beating on Newt in the debates. We raised $51 million and The Washington Post had a good story for the first time in a long time. They gave a great story and it said $51 million. Nobody could believe it. And I only started in mid-June. They were beating me up. Trump was down and I'm raising the money for the party. I'm putting up a lot of my own money, like I put up over $50 million for the primaries. I'm putting a lot of my own money.OK, but here's what's going to happen, folks, here's what's going to happen. We're going to be so successful and when people call me, pundits, people that right up here in these platforms, look at these people. I can't stand them, but look -- look. One of them called who is here today and said, Mr. Trump, what you've done is incredible. Sir -- this is a pretty liberal guy. I was surprised he called me "sir" actually. What you've done is absolutely incredible and honestly, he said, you know, it's not so incredible. I haven't won. He said, no, no. You don't have to win. You don't have to win. What you've done has never been done before in the history of politics. It's incredible.I said, let me give you a little clue, if I don't win, meaning the one person, and I wasted a lot of time and a lot of money, I haven't done a damn thing. That's the way I feel about it. That's the way I feel about it, because we're not going to be able to lower your taxes. We're not going to be able to get you good health care.We're not going to be able to save your Second Amendment which is under siege, by the way, and the National Rifle Association, the NRA, endorsed me with the earliest endorsement they've ever given to a candidate, OK, and Hillary Clinton wants to take your guns away and she wants to effectively abolish the second amendment. That's why they gave me the early endorsement because she is unthinkable for the NRA. Unthinkable, but all of these are going to happen. So, let me just finish by saying the following ...I love Ohio. I love the people of Ohio. Go out and vote for Rob Portman. He's been terrific. Go out and vote for Rob. But I love the people of Ohio, and we're going to start winning again, folks. We don't win anymore as a country. We don't win on trade. We don't win with the military. You know, when I was young, we never lost a war, all of us, a lot of you my age. When we were young, I still feel young, don't you feel young? But -- but when we were young, we never lost a war. They used to say we've never lost a war. Now we never win a war. We never win a bat. We never win anything.We have these idiots that get on television saying we are going to attack ISIS in 48 hours and when we attack we're going to hit them from the rear and we're going after Fallujah and that will take place in exactly two weeks and after that the next place we're going to Ramadi and we will -- now what happens is they say, oh, I mean, the only problem is they can't be anybody is so stupid to be saying all so sometimes they don't believe it and we can get away with it.Can you imagine, Newt, the great General George Patton getting on television to say when we're leaving Iraq. We are leaving on that date so the enemy goes back and they say nobody can be that stupid to say that. We don't really believe it, but you know what? Just in case Obama is serious, let's just pull back. Hey, you know. They don't want to be killed. You know they talk about they want to be killed, trust me. They can live. They would rather live. They will have their time. But you know what? Pull back, pull back. So now they pull back and he didn't leave anybody behind.I didn't want to go into Iraq from beginning. I said you're going to destabilize the Middle East, once you go in. The way he got out was unbelievable. Draws the line in the sand, the line in the sand. It is a violation. The line in the sand doesn't mean anything. Nothing means anything. We have a president who is terrible. We have a president who is -- who is right now what he wants to do is -- all he wants to do is campaign. He has fun campaigning. He has a good time campaigning. I want a president that's going to be focusing on knocking the hell out of ISIS. I want a president that's going to focus on making great trade deals so that China and us, we don't have a $505 billion a year trade deficit.I want a president that's going to create strong borders and I want a president that's going to keep criminals out of our country and people that kill us, people that are going around shooting people in the back. Jameel Shaw, great, shot in the face by a person who shouldn't be in this country. Kate, San Francisco, shot in the back by somebody that was thrown out of the country five times and probably got forced back in.We're going to have a safe country again, folks, and we're going to start winning again. We're going to win and we're going to win so much, and I'm telling you, and I hate saying this, but there's nothing fun about it because of what's going on. But we're going to win so much that the people of Ohio are going to call your representatives. They are going to call Matt Borgess, head of the Republican Party, good guy, by the way. Matt, you better win Ohio for me, Matt. They are going to call Matt. They are going to call Rob. You're going to call you have to see the president. We're winning too much. We're not used to winning this much. We're going to win with our military. We'll knock the hell out of ISIS. We're winning with the vets and with health care and we're winning with the border and we're winning with the wall and we're winning on our Second Amendment. Mr. President, sir, you're winning too much. The people of Ohio can't stand so much winning. We're not used to it.And you know what? I'm going to say I don't care, Rob. I don't care, Matt, we're going to keep winning because we are going to make America great again. Thank you, everybody. I love you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Ohio. Thank you, Cincinnati. I love Cincinnati.Wow. Wow. Whoa. That's a lot of people. That's a lot of people. Thank you everybody. Thank you. All right, let's turn that music down. We want to get to business. Right? Get to business. How's your governor doing by the way? Good? Huh? I think so.I think so. I just want to thank all of the people of Indiana. You know, we had a great victory here not so long ago and Indiana was the state that put me over the top. Thank you folks.Thank you. But we have a lot of things to discuss but we had some very bad news a few days ago. And you saw what happened. A lot of bad things are happening. And I was going to go through a whole litany of -- of that. But we don't want to. We want to be upbeat. We want to be positive. We want to be strong. And we're going to be strong.We've going to be stronger than ever before. We're going to be greater than ever before. We're going to bring our jobs back. We're going to bring our military back. It's being depleted so badly. We're going to take care of our veterans, which we have to take care of.We're going to get rid of Obamacare which is a disaster, and replace it with something terrific. We end Common Core. We bring our education back to the local communities, like this local community where the people love their children and they want to see their children be well-educated. So important.We're going to save our Second Amendment. We're going to save our Second Amendment.And it's under siege. You know, I wrote a few words today and I think it's important that we go through it as a group. It's been a special place and you're special people, and I know so many people tonight in the audience. And you're all over. Look at all those cameras up there folks. Look at all those cameras. They don't stop. They don't stop.But I just wanted to say -- I wrote this quickly but it means it came right from the heart, and I have to say that our whole nation grieves and mourns for the loss of five heroes in Dallas law enforcement. These were great, great people. Great people.We pray for their families. We pray for their loved ones. We pray for all the wounded survivors. We pray for our country. So important. The police are not just part of our society. Our police are the best of our society. Remember that.We have to remember that. They represent our highest ideals, our greatest values and our most noble characteristics. When our police are attacked, our entire nations is attacked. Remember that. Remember that.So the message must be delivered clearly for all to hear, the hostility against our police has to end and it has to end right now.And we have to say together, and we have to be strong, we have to take care of everyone. The two people that were killed in Louisiana and Minnesota, it was tough, it was tough to watch. For everybody here it was tough to watch. We have figure it out. We have to figure out what's going on.Was it training? Was it something else? It could have been something else. We have to take care of everybody. Remember that. But we have to also -- we have to get to the bottom of things. We have to. But we can never, ever forget the hundreds of thousands of great deals and great things that our police all over the country do, and nobody recognizes them for what they do.And when there's a problem, as bad as these two situations were, and I personally think they were -- they were bad. I hated -- I hated watching it. But as bad as they were, they get broadcast all over the world for days and days, and all of the good things, which are magnified thousands of times, nobody talks about.So we have to remember. We have to cherish and take care of our police. If we don't -- if we don't, we don't have a country anymore. We have a country in chaos. And remember this, and I say it once, and I say it with love and I say it with compassion -- 'cause I have love for our country and I have great compassion for our people and our country.But I am the law and order candidate.We need law and order and we need strength in this country. We don't have strength in our country. We have Crooked Hillary Clinton. As crooked as you get. When you saw that with the emails, it's a rigged system, folks. It's a rigged system. Just remember it. It's a rigged system.It's rigged in so many different ways. We're going to straighten it out. You can't even watch what happens. We had a young man who did nothing by comparison to what she did and he warned his friends of a problem that was coming militarily, and they came down on him with a vengeance. And they let her go -- 33,000 missing emails. They let her go.Lies all over the place, and they let her go. Think of it. It's a disgrace. So we're going to get on to other subjects, but I have to say, law enforcement has to remain with us. We have to take care of our police and our law enforcement officials. We're going to do it. We're going to continue to do it. We're going to remember that they do a fabulous job.We're going to remember they do a great job and every once in a while, problems will happen and we're going take care of those problems. And they could be bad problems. But we are going to treat our police with respect. Remember that, OK. Now, I'm looking at different rates and different crimes. And you see the crime rate in large portions of our country is going way up. You look at certain inner cities and look at Chicago. Look at what's going on. Since President Obama became president, almost 5,000 killings in Chicago, and nobody talks about it.But we're going to start talking about it because we have to make this a safe country. And you know, I would say two weeks ago, a month ago, I wouldn't be saying these words. I was talking about the border and I was talking about the wall. And we will build the wall. That I can tell you.I can tell you. Yeah, we're going to build it. Don't worry about it. Are you ready? Who is going to pay for the wall?I don't hear you. Who's going to pay for the wall?And they will, very much they will, 100 percent. And you know what, they'll be happy to pay for the wall. We have a trade deficit with Mexico that you wouldn't believe. Billions and billions and billions of dollars a year, we're losing on the border, we're losing on trade.And when I was in the debates and I mentioned this, people would come up that I was debating against and they used to say, "Donald, you're not really going to build a wall, are you?" And I'd say, "Absolutely."They said, "But you can't build a wall." But I'm into construction. Do you know how easy a wall is? A wall? We build 95 story buildings with bathrooms. That's tough construction. Not a wall. Walls don't have bathrooms and bathrooms are always tough. But we're going to have a very big, beautiful gate in that wall.Big and beautiful. And that gate's going to open. And it's going to be wide open for people to come into our country but they're going to come into our country legally. They're going to come in legally.And they're going to be people that love our country. They're not going to be people that hate our country. They're not going to be people that we don't know where they come from. They're not going to be people that come from the migration that don't have paperwork, that don't have passports, that we have no idea where they're from.We have no idea what their motives are. We're going to say, no, sorry. No. And we'll help. And in Syria, we'll build safe zones, and we'll get other people to put up the money because we're going to owe very soon $20 trillion -- trillion with a T -- nobody even knows what it means.We're going to owe 20 -- right now, can you believe this -- $20 trillion, soon going to $21 trillion. So we're going to get the Gulf States, who have so much money folks, so much money. And we're going to get them to put up the money and others. And we're going to take care of people and we're going to have compassion.But we can't allow them to come into our country. We have enough problems right now. You see what happened in Orlando. You see what happened in San Bernardino. We can't allow it to happen. So we're going to build safe zones. We're going to take care of people. We're going to have other people fund these safe zones.We're going to build up our military. We should have never been in Iraq. But once we went into Iraq, we should have never left the way we left. We left like fools. We went in. Should have never happened. I didn't want to go from the beginning, and I have proof from the beginning.I didn't want Iraq -- I said you're going to destabilize the entire Middle East. So that's exactly what happened. But then we were there, losing thousands of lives, spending trillions and trillions of dollars, probably in the Middle-East we're up to $4 trillion, and we're in worse shape now than we were 15 years ago, before the whole deal started.Far worse, not even close. Far worse. Far worse. So what we're going to do is we're going to start thinking smart. We're going to be smart again. We're going to make great military and by the way, I said for years, we've got to keep the oil. I said, keep the oil. You leave, you keep the oil. We didn't do it. We didn't do it.I said it for years. Once we were in, I said, when we get out it's going to be a disaster, but when we get out -- we should have left some troops there, and I hate saying that. But we should have left some troops there and it would have been better, certainly than it is right now.Can't be any worse. But I always said, keep the oil. But we didn't keep the oil. So who has the oil right now? A lot of the oil is had by ISIS, and we created ISIS. And Hillary Clinton through her incompetence, directly and indirectly created ISIS. And now she wants to get rid of it.She says, yes, we will fight ISIS. She's the one that created it with stupidity. With stupid, stupid policy. Policy that's only going to get worse. She is the one that created it. And that's what's happened. And so now we have problems all over the place.We have our cities exploding. We have ISIS looking at us, and by the way, when our enemies all over the world, including our friends all over the world look at what's happening to our country, where the other night you had 11 -- think of it -- 11 cities potentially in a blow up stage, marches all over the United States. And tough marches. Anger. Hatred. Hatred. Started by a maniac that some people asked for a moment of silence for him, for the killer. For the killer. OK. So when our enemies look at what's going on with our country, they see our deficits, they see we don't win anymore. We don't win. We don't win.We don't win at anything. I always say, when I was going -- when I was young going to high school and going to college and before that, we never lost. You know, the United States they said had never lost a war. Now we never win. We don't win on trade.We don't win with our military. Our military is so depleted. Our military has fighter jets that are in use, flown by great, great American people that are so old and they can't get parts for the fighter jets. These are people flying these jets now in combat. They can't get parts. So they go to the plane graveyards, in the deserts.They go to museums where they have similar planes and they strip the planes of parts to use for our fighter pilots to fly. This is what we've been reduced to and I'll tell you something. Hillary Clinton is incompetent, OK. The greatest single thing in my opinion that she's ever done is to get out of the email problem. I think it's incredible. She did a great job on that.That's it. I think it's her greatest achievement. I think when they look back on Hillary Clinton, they will say, the greatest achievement of Hillary Clinton was getting out of this problem with emails. Nobody could have got -- Houdini couldn't have gotten out.She was so guilty. I have a list. Look. Page after page of the lies. Page after page the lies. All over. Look at this. Page, page. I -- look, I don't want to read it to you. The press would say, you should spend your entire speech talking about Hillary Clinton and the emails. I don't want to talk about it. You know what, it was all lies folks.I don't have to go through and bore everybody. It was so horrible. It was so disgusting. It was so outrageous. You look at General Petraeus. Look what happened to him for a tiny fraction of what Crooked Hillary did. You look at other people for a tiny fraction, look at what happened to them.So I just tell you this, we have a candidate on the other side, who if she ever gets elected, it will be four more disgusting years of Obama. It will be four more years of weakness. It will be four more years of civil unrest. It will be four more years of not winning with our military and not winning against ISIS. They don't have a clue how to beat ISIS.They don't have a clue. But it'll be four more years of Obama and Obamacare and all of these things that don't work. Except I think actually it will be worse. Today I see Bernie Sanders gave her this very, you know, sort of strange endorsement. I want to tell you, a lot of Bernie Sanders people are so upset about it, they're going to be voting for Trump.I really believe that. They're going to be voting for Trump.They're going to be voting for Trump because the one thing that Bernie Sanders and I have in common was trade. Now he can't do anything about it. He just knew it was bad. I know how to fix it because I am in favor of free trade. You know, a lot of people say I'm an isolationist.OK. Of course, when you're losing $800 billion a year on trade deficits, maybe that's not the worst thing. But we're going to straighten it out. I believe in open borders for trade. I believe in free trade. The problem we have is that virtually every single country that deals with us are far sharper and far better.They have their best negotiators. We have people that are political hacks negotiation for us. We have people that don't know what they're doing. I have the greatest businessmen in the world that have endorsed me including people like Carl Icahn. Great businessman. We have some of the greatest negotiators, maybe the greatest negotiators in the world.We don't use them. We use political hacks. We have people in there that got in for politics. You can look at the biggest companies in the world and it's small potatoes. It's peanuts compared to some of these massive trade deals. And we have people that should never be negotiating trade deals.Just like we have Secretary of State Kerry negotiating with Iran and what they did to him and you because he has no idea what the hell he was doing and what he gave away. Israel is in serious jeopardy. Frankly we're in serious jeopardy. And we made a power out of Iran. We made a power.Number one, we should have never gone in and negotiated that deal until we got our hostages back. Ever. Ever. We should have never, ever gone in. And what you say is, folks, we have to get them back. And if you don't want to give them back, you leave the meeting. You leave the meeting and you double up your sanctions.You would have them back within 24 hours. I guarantee you that. But we didn't do it. We never left any meeting. I kept waiting for the whole delegation. I kept waiting for them to leave. To get up and leave. I used to say, get up and leave. Perfect. Get up. We didn't win anything.The only time that Kerry left at 73-years old to go into a bicycle race where he fell and broke his leg. Right? And I always tell people, I promise you I will never enter a bicycle race when I'm in the midst of an important nuclear negotiation. I promise. I promise. But when you look at it, number one, we should have gotten them back.And the other thing, we should have never given them back the $150 billion. And I would have said, very nicely -- my father used to think I was a little bit rough. And he used to go, easy son. Son, take it nice and easy. You've got to take the lumps out. He had an expression. Good father. We all had great fathers, I hope. I had a good father. But I learned a lot. He said -- and he'd go like this with his hand, he said, "You've got to take the lumps out." Take the lumps. Easy. Nice and easy. Take the lumps out. You're a little too rough. What do you mean, pop? You're a little too rough.And over the years I think I've learned that. Made great deals. Built a great company. Great company. Took advantage of every single thing you can, because you're working for yourself. You're working for your family. You're working for your employees. You're working for -- took advantage of ever law. Some of these are the dumbest laws I've ever seen.Some of these laws are so stupid, but you know, you take advantage of them. You're like a business person, right? Got to take advantage of them. Because you're really representing your employees, your company, your family. But my father would say, "Take the lumps out." So here's what I would have said on the $150 billion.In the old days, when I was young, I'd say, we're not paying you back the $150 billion. You're not getting it. And there'd be a lot of hard feeling, right, in the room. You know, take a while but they'd still come back. Don't worry about it. Because they need us. They need us. And then I would have left and here go with the sanctions.I would have done two things. Number one, hostages before we start uttering the first word. But number two, I would -- and how long were those hostages there? That negotiation took forever. And we didn't win a point. We lost everything. They're going to be a nuclear power. They're rich. They're powerful. How about Yemen.They're fighting on the other side of Yemen. We're fighting. They're fighting. I said, why didn't they make the deal to get out of Yemen? And Kerry said, because he didn't want to complicate the negotiations. Give me a break. Now can you believe, we're fighting each other. We're talking about one thing. They don't want to bring something else.It's too complicated. These are amateurs. But my father would say, "Take the lumps out." So, here's what I would have said. Number one, we'd now be negotiating because our prisoners would have been back years ago. Years ago. I would have said, fellas, look, here's the story. Here's the story. We have a problem. Our country's flat broke.We owe $19 trillion, going to be $20 trillion with the Omnibus budget. Going to be $21 trillion very soon. I want to give you the money back. I really do. We don't have it. I'm sorry. They would have gone nuts. They would have said, what do you mean? You've got to give us the money. I would said, no, no. We want to. We don't have it.I want to so badly. We love you. You're such great people. Such nice people. So kind. Take a look at what they do to their hostage and their prisoners. You'll find out about tough people. Great negotiators. Persians, great negotiators. I would have said, remember nice and easy. I would have rather done it my way, but I respected my father.So I would have said, we don't have the money. Can't do it. They would have left. We would have left. We would have been back in two weeks. OK. We would have saved $150 billion. So those two things. We would have had our hostages back. We would have saved $150 billion. Now they're so rich, they're buying airlines. They're buying everything.They're buying probably nuclear weapons. We just don't know about it. OK. What the hell do they have to do -- nuclear weapons. You know, we're worried about them making nuclear weapons. They'll buy them. They've got the money. They made such fools out of us. Folks, those days are over. They're over. They're over.I call Obama, the five-for-one president. So we have a traitor named Sergeant Bergdahl. So Sergeant thinks he likes their way of life, obviously. Oh, they have a wonderful way of life. So one day he leaves. We lose five and maybe six, but five at least people looking for him. They were killed. They were killed by the enemy.They go out there looking for him. They knew he left. Everybody with him knew he left because he was all whacked out and a believer in them, not us. So they knew he left. So knowing that, in fact they had a colonel and I believe a general talking to the people that knew him.And they told the colonel and the general that he left. He deserted. Remember the old days, a deserted. What happened? Bang. Twenty years ago it was bang but slowly. Ten years ago it was a long prison. Today, they're probably talking about nothing. That's where we've come. But I call him the five-for-one.So we get Bergdahl. Right? A traitor. They get five of the most vicious killers that they have, that they've been after for nine years to get him out, and they bring them and they're back on the battlefield trying to kill everybody, including us. This stuff is going to stop, folks. And GITMO, we're not closing GITMO.We're going to fill it up. We're not closing GITMO. We're not closing GITMO. And I see Hillary Clinton said, I do not like Donald Trump's tone. Look, here's a story. I think I have a great temperament. She uses the word temperament. But I loved when she used the word tone. I do not like Donald Trump's tone.They're chopping off heads of Christians and anybody else that gets in their way. Chopping heads off. We haven't seen that since medieval times. Right? You read the history books. That's -- they chopped off heads. Well, they're chopping off heads. They're drowning people in steel cages by the dozens at a time. And she says, we -- we don't like his tone. Let me tell you folks. It's time for a tough tone. We've had enough. We've had enough. We've had enough.So we're going to do things the smart way. I remember during the debate they asked one of the folks on the debate stage, who's becoming friendlier and friendlier by the day with me, which -- some of the people are recovering. It was -- I'll tell you what. They say it was the nasty primary that anybody has seen.They say the nastiest in recorded history. Who knew what went on before recorded. But it was pretty nasty. And some of the folks -- I saw one yesterday. I will not even mention names because I want to be friends with everybody. Right? We're going to be friends with them. Except for the real enemy.But they'll sign a document. Right? It's called a pledge. I pledge. I pledge. I swear. I pledge that if I don't make it I'm going to support the nominee of the party. It doesn't say, subject to change. Subject to the weather. Subject to the sun doesn't come up.No, it said, I pledge. And for that pledge, they got access to millions of dollars worth of material from the Republican National Committee, the RNC. Reince Priebus. A great guy. By the way, great guy. He's doing a great job. Got to tell you. Reince Priebus, doing a great -- and if he wasn't, I'd tell you. And if he doesn't over the next four or five weeks, I'll tell you.But he is. He's a good man. And his whole staff is doing a great job. But they got access. So they signed a pledge that they will support. Now, I don't really -- I don't want they're support. It won't mean one vote, other than perhaps their family. Won't mean -- it doesn't mean anything. But I signed a pledge, too. And everybody wanted to sign the pledge.And the reason they signed the pledge was to get me to sign it. I signed it. I would have honored it. I just said, people should honor pledges. People should honor documents when they sign them.You know, not a big deal. Not a big deal. But they should honor. So here's the story folks. We're losing our country. We're like a piece of Swiss cheese at the borders. That's going -- that's going to end. You know, the border patrol agents, 16,500. First time in history that they did this.They've never done this before -- 16,500 border patrol agents have endorsed Donald Trump. They know better than anybody what's going on at the border. And by the way, if and when we win -- it's we. I'm just a messenger folks. I'm telling a message of common sense. I'm telling a message of strength.But I'm your messenger, and I'm doing a good job as a messenger. I mean, you know, in all fairness, but 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed Donald Trump. If they did, then they're jobs much easier. What they do now is they stand there, beautiful equipment, great people, people walk right by them. That's an easy job.They can't stand it because they don't like what's coming into our country. They want to do their job. With me, they're going to be working really hard. And I said them, when they called me to tell me about the endorsement. Never done it before. They've never endorsed a presidential candidate before -- 16,500 great, great people.And I said to them, so let me tell you, I want to ask you this question. How important is the wall? They said, Mr. Trump, the wall is vital. I don't know what I would have done if they said it's not important. I would have had to say, I guess, we're not building it, because I respect these people. They know better than anybody.They know a hell of a lot better than the consultants and all these people that are making millions of dollars that don't have a clue. Who's better at that? I said, how important is the wall? Mr. Trump -- never forget the answer -- the wall is vital. It's vital. Very important. Very important. They actually said, it's a tool toward real security. And important tool.And then I spoke with Sheriff Joe Arpaio from Arizona. And he called me out of the blue, and I've read about Sheriff Joe. I mean he knows borders, right? Amazing guy. Tough guy, but he's an amazing guy. And he said, Mr. Trump, I just want you to know that I'm endorsing you because you know more about this stuff than anybody.You know more about this stuff than people doing it for 25 years. You get it. You know what's happening. I'm endorsing you. And he's actually a quality person. He's a tough guy. But he's a quality person. He gets the job done. Amazing. So I know about that.And when it was coming time for the wall, I'll never forget. Vicente Fox, your former president on one of the major networks used the F-bomb. Remember. And I told the story a couple of times. He said, we will not pay for the F-bomb wall. I said, oh, he said -- can you imagine. It's going to be headlines tomorrow. He used it on live television.I said, oh, I feel so badly for the guy. Now in one way I was happy because he used to say, we'll never build a wall. Now he's saying, we'll never pay for the wall. So we made a lot of progress. At least he's now admitting it's going to get built. Right?And he seemed like a nice guy, but he got a little bit rough. We will never pay for the F-bomb wall. I said, oh, the poor guy. He's going to get killed tomorrow in the papers. Nobody mentioned it. Can you imagine if I threw out the F-bomb. I think it would be the electric chair, right? Would it be electric chair?Now, the press, I have to tell you, those people back there, and I ... I will tell you this. Not all of them. But many of them, are the most dishonest human beings on earth. They are the most dishonest human beings on earth.I've had days that are so good, and then you wake up the next morning and you say, man did they take that. I won't even say what things. I could go one after another. And we don't make a lot of mistakes. All of us. We don't make mistakes.But what they do, they'll take a sentence and they'll make it much different than what you said -- much different from what you meant. And all of a sudden it will say, Donald Trump had a bad week because he said something perfect. Perfect. OK. Perfect.I'm telling you folks. And I tell it all the time because as a Republican and as a Republican conservative, we are at a tremendous disadvantage. You look at the way they treat Crooked Hillary. You take -- you take a look at this compared to the way they treat other people, or the way they treat me.They are some of the worst human beings on earth. I really mean it. I really mean it.You know -- where are my protesters. I want some protest. You know, look at this room. The governor just said, he's never seen a room like this in Indiana with this many people. He's never seen anything like it. Look at this thing.What is -- if this is where your football team -- look at the ceilings. Everything's nice. Let's see, well, my -- you know, I always talk about the wall's going to be real high. But that's really high up there. That's a big one. But you don't see crowds like this. We have crowds like this everywhere. No matter where we go.And every time I go home, my wife said, how was the crowd? And I always say, didn't you see it? They keep those cameras on my face. They never take the cameras off my face because they don't want people -- I wish they'd turn those cameras over here. Take a look at this crowd. Take a look at this crowd.Look the cameras aren't moving. They're really dishonest. I ... I really mean this. They are so dishonest. That's why I love my protesters, because they only time they move the cameras are when we have a protest.If somebody were up there screaming or shouting, the cameras -- which I used to think, were in a fixed position -- I said, maybe mechanically they can't move, but when we have a protest here, they turn and -- they're like a pretzel, all over -- wow. Through the cameraman's legs. Up around his ankles. You never saw cameras move like this. The fact is that you have to know what you're getting and the system is wonderful in many ways but really bad in others. And one of the worst aspects of our system is the dishonest press. The dishonest media is one of the worst things. I really mean it.They write and say things that are disgraceful. So -- and I like to say -- you know, what because when people see things, or read things, or hear things they'll say -- I'll you what, one of the most incredible -- people said, what have you learned.I said, you know what I've learned, how smart the people are because they're rating is so low, they're so thought of so badly, it's like how smart the people were. And I'll say this, various anchors, some of whom truly dislike Donald Trump have said, what's happened to us. To us -- I'm messenger. You're the important ones in this whole thing.But what happened to us, is one of the greatest political phenomena they've ever seen in this country. In the history of the country. I didn't even know that. I didn't even know that. Bill O'Reilly, of course I'm on his show tonight, so if you get home you'll see the second edition.But Bill O'Reilly said the single greatest political phenomena that he's seen in his life time -- now he's a pro, smart guy, tough, tough. But the single greatest political phenomena that he's seen in his life time is Donald Trump and all of us. The whole thing. We've been on the cover -- we've been on the cover of Time Magazine.We've been on the cover of Time Magazine so much it becomes routine. In fact, they just told me, Mr. Trump, sir, you're on the cover of Time Magazine again this week. I said, oh right. You know, the old days, I'd say, wow, that's a big deal. Now, it's like, really? That's good. That's all right. You're on the cover of Time Magazine.I'm not on the cover of Time Magazine. You're on the cover. Just remember that. So we have a lot of things that are taking place. We have a bad enemy. We have an enemy that's dishonest. We have a press that's dishonest. We have a group of people that want to get elected, who have a rigged system, and who have really rigged the system to a large extent.They've really rigged the system. You can say what you want about Bernie Sanders, but those super delegates, that was worse than what happened with us. And frankly the only reason I could win is we won in six landslides, all over the place, including Indiana. What a landslide that was.And we love Bobby Knight. Do we love Bobby Knight? Oh that Bobby Knight. I love my Bobby Knight. We had so many coaches, Gene, Digger and Bobby and we had so many coaches. Lou -- Lou Holtz. We had so many coaches that came out in our favor. I do well with coaches, I'll tell you.But the coaches like me. But Bobby was out here working really hard and I could see it right at the beginning, this was going to be the water shed. We weren't going to -- but Bobby came out and I came out. And we went to arenas -- you've never seen so many people. Many of you -- many -- a lot of you were at those arenas.But it's been amazing. So here's the story folks, we've got to stop four more years of Obama. We've got to stop Hillary Clinton, who's as crooked as they come. We've got to bring our country back.We have to make great trade deals again. We're going to make deals that bring our jobs back. And we get -- get along great with these countries. And we're going to trade with these countries. I am not an isolationist. I'm a free trader. But I'm a free trader to make great deals. Not to make horrible deals.One of the people standing right there said to me, Mr. Trump, are you an isolationist? And Mr. Trump -- I said, no. Said, Mr. Trump, well, what's your definition of trade. I said, it's very simple. Very simple. I know free. I know fair. I know every form of trade known to mankind. OK.Here's my definition of trade. My definition of trade is that I want to make great deals for the American people. You can call it whatever the hell you want. OK. And we're going to. We're going to bring our jobs back.We're going to bring our manufacturing back. You look at what's happened to the manufacturing since Bill Clinton signed, probably the worst deal economically in the history of our country -- NAFTA.That deal was signed by Bill Clinton. You look at areas even from here -- but you look at places -- you look at places like New England and New York state and Pennsylvania -- great state. We're leading in Pennsylvania by the way. Just came out. I hear we're leading in Florida. I hear we're leading in Ohio. I hear we're leading all over the place.And the Rasmussen Poll just came out and we're leading nationally. But we have a long way to go and we're dealing with a dishonest system. We're dealing with a crooked system. We're dealing with a rigged system. So we got a long way to go folks. And we don't want anybody to take it away from us.And when this person said to me, by the way, what you've done has never been done before. Congratulations. It doesn't even matter if you win or lose the election, what you've done has never been done before. Winning all the primaries. Beating great professionals. And they're very talented people.Beating these -- it's never been done before. You'll go down in the history books, Mr. Trump. I said, do me a favor. Don't even tell me about it. Because if I don't win the next one, I will consider it a big fat waste of time, and $55 million I put up and I'm still putting up a lot more. And we raised $51 million last month. And we started toward the middle of the month and everyone was shocked. And much of that money came in small donations like $71 average, or something like that. And I put up millions, but I did it like, I want to incentive people. I want people to realize. I'm raising money for the Republican party, and the RNC.That's what we want to do because we want to keep our majority. We want to keep our House. We want to keep our Senate because I'll tell you what. If we can do that and we have Trump as president, we are going to be able to do things that are going to be so great for our country.Going to be amazing. You know, we're one of the highest taxed nations in the world, and yet in going around and meeting with people, small business people, big business people. If they had their chance and if they had their choice, they would rather get rid of rules and -- we have the worst regulations anywhere in the world.They actually would rather pay more tax -- which is surprising, and get rid of these regulations that are choking everybody. People can't run their businesses. So we're going to turn things around. We're going to turn them around fast. We're not going to lose Carrier Air Conditioning from Indianapolis. You know that deal very well.Those people have followed me all over the place -- 1,400 people out of jobs, viciously. They're moving to Mexico. Any of the Carrier folks in this room? Because we have -- we have a lot -- oh, look at that. Why are you in the back row? You should be in the front row.But we had during the season, we had so many of them, they'll follow us around. They felt so badly. We're not going to let that happen. When people and countries take our companies and take our jobs, there're going to be consequences. They're not going to take them because we're not going to let Carrier come in, make air conditioners in Mexico.Sell the air conditioners to us across a very strong border now without consequence. And we explain to the heads of Carrier that here's the story, either stay, or if you want to go to Mexico, we wish you a lot of luck. But when you sell your air conditioners, you're going to pay a 35 percent tax as those air conditioners cross the border.And you know what's going to happen? They're not going to move. They're not going to move. This government was thinking about low interest loans. Zero interest loans. All sorts of ways how to keep our companies. You don't need that. They don't need money. They're making plenty of money.But we're not going to let them just take our companies out, fire everybody. These are people with Carrier for many, many years. We're not going to let it happen. And we're going to have a country that's so smart again. So here's the story folks, we don't win anymore. We're going to start winning.We're going to win with our military. We're going to kick the hell out of ISIS. We have to end it. We have no choice.We're going to take care of our vets. So important. Our vets are being treated so badly. I have such great veteran support. We're going to take care of our veterans. We're going to have strong borders. We're going to have the wall. Oh that wall is going to be as beautiful as a well can be.Somebody said, Mr. Trump, sir, they're going to call it the Trump wall. I said, well then, I'd better build it big and beautiful. Right? No. No, I don't want that. But we need -- we need great borders because without borders, we don't have a country. We're going to make great trade deals. Our jobs are going to come back. We're going to make a lot of money on trade.Right now we lose all of this money. You look at Japan. The biggest ships you've ever seen floating. And I was in Los Angeles. They float on these massive, massive ships, loaded up with cars. And the cars are pouring, just like, I mean NASCAR. I love NASCAR.I love Brian France. He endorsed me from NASCAR. Right? NASCAR. It's like NASCAR drivers. King Richard endorsed me. A lot of the guys endorsed me. Richard Petty. They come in. They're pouring off these boats. We send them wheat. We send them beef. And when it gets there they don't even want it. They send it back.You want to see trade imbalance. Take a look at the imbalance we have with Japan. It's going to end folks. We're going to have smart people now. We're going to make great deals. We're going make fair deals. We'll get along great with Japan. We're going to get along great with -- we're going to get along better with these countries and they're going to treat us fairly.And we have all the cards. Just remember that. We're the piggy bank. But they're going to break our piggy bank very soon. But we're the piggy bank. They take the money out. We have rebuilt China. They money they've taken out of this country. I mean they have trains that we can only dream about. They have highways that we can only dream about.Places outside of this country in the Middle East, different places have airports that we can only dream about. We used to be at that top. Now we're like a third world country. So here's what I say. We're going to start winning again. We're going to win so much. You're going to be so proud of your country. We're going to win so much.You're going to be so happy. You're going to have your jobs back. You're going to have your pride back. I often joke, you'll be calling up Mike Pence. I don't know whether he's going to be your governor, or your vice president -- who the hell knows.But you're going to call up -- good man -- but you're going to call him and you're going to either say, governor, or vice president, sir, please, please speak to Mr. Trump. We're winning too much. We the people of Indiana cannot stand all of these victories. We can't take it. We're not used to it. Please. We're winning with our military. We're going to beat ISIS.We're winning on trade. We're winning at the border. We're stopping drugs from pouring in. We're winning on education. We're winning with our Second Amendment. Please, please, Mike, help us. We're winning too much. And Mike will come to see me. Say, Mr. President, sir, they're winning too much. The people of Indiana can't stand it.I say, Mike, go back and tell them, we're not changing a damn thing. We're going to keep winning. And we're going to win at every level. And we are going to make America so great again. We're going to make America greater than ever before. I love you Indiana. Thank you for all your help. You're really special people. Thank you. We love you.Thank you very much everybody. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you. Whoa. Whoa.This is amazing. This is amazing. USA. Thank you. Thank you.This is incredible. You know, I had a press conference before and one of the questions was, "Mr. Trump, what are you doing? You are not supposed to be campaigning today. You have broken all of the rules. What is going on? They are having their convention. Sir, you are not supposed to be campaigning." Well, guess what, folks? We are campaigning.We are going to make America great folks. We are going to make America great again. Remember that.And they said the same thing, you know, during the primaries. We have 17 people, very talented people. And they said the same thing -- this will never work because Trump comes in, he has these big rallies, and then he leaves.But that worked.I have to thank two people that have been unbelievable and great friends: Tom Marino, congressman. Where's Tom? Get up here, Tom. Get up here.And Lou Barletta, get up here -- oh, there it is -- Lou, Lou, Lou.All right. They have, like, big fences to cross. Just a minute. OK. We all know what you look like. But they have been so great right from the beginning, and I want to thank -- I want to thank you both. I want to thank you both. Thank you. I mean it.So, it's been an amazing -- yeah, sit down. Come on. We've got plenty of time. Well, we have nothing but time. It's a nice place.This is very nice. First of all, Mike Pence has been amazing.And you know, one of the reasons, and this is 100 percent, one of the reasons I chose Mike was because Indiana under his leadership has done so well. It's done so incredibly -- AAA bond rating. They have really low unemployment, one of the top few states.Everything's good, even for the veterans in terms of employment, I think it was 32 or 38. No, that's not the good number. That was when he got into office. And when he left, right now, basically they were number two in the nation and he wants it to be number one. That's incredible. That's veterans being employed by some of the folks in this room. So that was great.Now, when we won New York, you know, we had these incredible victories. What do I know about politics? But we do have a lot of common sense, all of us, don't we? We know. We know.We know a lot. We know a lot. I had a run that was incredible. It started with New York. And New York -- and you know what's nice? I won New York...... Queens, Queens, you're right. Queens.He knows. What are you doing here? What are you doing here?But we had this incredible period of time, and we just kept winning, winning, winning. But I went to New York and we had a massive landslide victory -- won just about everything. And in my victory speech, I don't even know why I said it -- but I said, "And we're going to " -- this is in the middle of Fifth Avenue, OK? -- "we're going to put the miners back to work." I said that.I don't even know why. And by the way, that includes the steelworkers, and we're going to take a lot of the regulations off of gas, because gas is big, and they want to close you down. They want to close the mines down. They've been closing mines down. It's sad. It's sad.But little did I realize that shortly thereafter I'd go to a place called West Virginia. And did they love Trump. Did you see those numbers?And Hillary Clinton -- Crooked Hillary Clinton, she's really crooked.So Hillary Clinton -- thank you.D. You know what we're going to do? Even better, we're going to beat her on November 8th. We're going to beat her. OK?That's even better. OK? That's what we're going to do. Got to get out there. We got to vote. You got to get out there. We got to get out there.But do you remember -- so Hillary gave a press conference in an area where coal and the different things that we all love wasn't so important, right? And she figured she'd make the statement and it wouldn't get back to West Virginia. It got back to West Virginia and it got back to Pennsylvania and it got back to Ohio and it got back to a lot of places that she didn't want to hear that message.She said, "We're going to put the coal miners and we're going to put the coal mines out of business." OK? No good.And we had an event. It was at a big, massive place -- it was beautiful -- in West Virginia and the place was packed. It has to be 10,000, 12,000 people and outside, they had at least double that number. And it was love.And I went and saw some of the miners and I said, "So tell me, would you ever think of like leaving and going to another place and maybe doing something else instead of this?" They said, "Mr. Trump, " and I understand this so well, "we love mining. We love doing it. This is our livelihood. Our fathers, our grandfathers -- this is what we do. We do it so well. We don't want to do something else." And I said, "I love that."I love that. I can understand it and I love that. Love it.So hang in, because we're going to put you back to work. We're going to put you back. It's going to be a beautiful thing to see because these are great people. These are amazing people. And so many from this area, but so many from this state.And I went to school in Pennsylvania. I love Pennsylvania.You know, I love Pennsylvania. And we're just going to -- you know, when I look at -- I look around and I see what happened, I -- I didn't need to do this. I had a very nice life.Beautiful family, beautiful business. I built this incredible company. All this, and I just couldn't stand -- you look at the Iran deal, you look at so many -- everything is wrong. Everything is wrong. Take a look.I'll tell you what. Let's talk. Take a look at the convention that's going on right now. They don't honor -- think of it. They don't honor our police, they don't honor our law enforcement. We started complaining they had no American flags on this massive stage. They had no American flags. They forgot. They forgot to put up -- now, we had a lot of flags.Somebody said, "I can't see you, Mr. Trump. There are too many flags." I said, "That's OK. We'll leave it that way."But we had a tremendous success and we got a balance that, according to one of the networks, that it was one of the biggest balances that anyone's seen.Now, I give a lot of credit for that to my family. My family, Melania and Tiffany...And Ivanka and Don and Eric. And they talk about these people. They say, "Stars, stars." I'd rather have those five stars much more so, those five-plus one, by the way.But they did an amazing job. And I have one of the stars with me. Should I introduce you to Eric? Eric. Eric. Get over here, Eric. Come here.That is my 6"6 boy, and he is a good guy. He is a good guy.He loved this area, he really did. He loved the school he went to. He went to the Hills school. He loved it and he did well. He has been doing well. I am very proud of my children. I am very proud of my children.So, President Obama today was interviewed on a show, man look honestly, if he did a great job as President, I wouldn't care if he was a Democrat, Republican or conservative I don't care. If he did a great job as President, I would be so happy and so would you. I would be so happy.It hasn't worked out that way. It hasn't worked out that way. We are scoffed at all over the world. We are looked down upon all over the world. We are not respected anymore. We were talking about Putin today -- no respect, no like, no nothing. You know, wouldn't it be a great thing if we could get along with Russia? Wouldn't that be a good thing? That would be a good thing.Not a bad thing. It would be a good thing. Wouldn't it be a good thing if we could make deals, trade deals, with China, that instead of loosing hundreds of billions of dollars a year and rebuilding China's roadways, and airports, and tunnels; that we did much better than we are doing right now?You know, I am a free trader. I believe in it, but you need smart people to make great deals. We don't have the right people. We are being ripped off on by every single country we do business with on trade. Every single country we do business with.We have people negotiating our deals that are political hacks. These are deals that are so big -- you know, you could take a midsize country and the trade deals are bigger than the massive deals you read about with corporations. These are bigger deals.There is no bigger deals than the deals with China with trade. It's a one way street. They take their product, they flow it in -- by the way, for your steel workers, they dump more steel in this place because they're going to put you out of business. You are already mostly out of business, but they want to put you out of business.We are going to start making things again folks. We are going to start making things again, that includes steel, but we will start making things again..A friend of mine who's a manufacturer -- he's a great manufacturer. He's not a very political person, which is probably good for him. But he's a great manufacturer. And he calls me up and he goes, you know, it's really sad; I work so hard to get into China; I can't break in. He can't get in. It's so hard.Then he finally gets in and he has to pay massive taxes on everything. And they wanted to open up plants in China -- we're not going to let you do this anymore.And I'm not even blaming China. I think they're doing the right thing for them. But they're killing us. They're killing us. And it's not going to happen anymore, folks; not going to happen anymore.And the problem is it's a one-way street. We pay tax. They don't take our goods. They make us build like crazy over there. You look at Boeing. They order 300 planes. They end up having to build a massive place over there. They devalue their currency. They're grand, grand masters. They're the greatest in the world ever. Japan's good. They're all good.We're not good. We don't know what's happening. And it's so easy to stop. Because they send their goods in and they send them in without tax. And not going to happen. So here's the story, here's the story. I won the state of Indiana, where I got to know Mike Pence.And one of the reasons I won -- well, maybe the biggest reason was Bobby Knight came out and he said, you know, we want Trump. Right? Look at that. We want Trump. But Bobby Knight was so great.But one of the big reasons I won Indiana was because Carrier Air Conditioner announced -- actually about a year before, but I kept talking about Carrier, Carrier. I didn't know I'd need -- you know, it was going to be good for me. It turned out to be good for me. Because every time I made a speech in Indiana, I'd have so many of these 1,400 people that got laid off. They were in Carrier for years; some of them 30, 35 years. Good people.And one day, and if I didn't have the cell phones -- oh, those cell phones where they take the pictures. They had -- it was all over the news. Somebody was taking a picture of this sort of mid-level manager saying, listen, we're going to fire everybody, and we're moving to Mexico. Just another case.But you know what? It's much more effective when you can see it. Let's say that same thing happened, but we didn't have the picture of these people that were devastated. They were devastated. This has been their job for many years and it's a good job.You know, the jobs we have aren't good jobs anymore. They're bad jobs. And even the opponents say they're bad jobs. So I go to Indiana and I've been talking about Carrier for a long time. It got worse and worse. And many others -- this is just -- in all fairness to Carrier, this is just one of hundreds and hundreds of companies that are moving out, in this case going to Mexico. Many of them go to Mexico, but in this case going to Mexico.So they announce they're closing. They're going to fire everybody. They're going to move to Mexico. They're going to make their air conditioners. They're going to sell them over here. And that's it.Not anymore, folks. Not anymore. Not anymore.Not anymore.So now when that happens, and this can pertain to all of you. We're going to keep your companies and we're going to bring a lot of companies back. We're going to bring our jobs back. We're going to bring our coal back. And we're going to have clean coal. It's clean coal. And we're going to have coal.And that gas is going to be just a beautiful thing, OK? Because they want to regulate you right out of business. They want you out. They want to stop that one now.So what happens is this. They think they're going to go make their products, sell it in, everyone's going to be happy. So for years, I've been watching, even before this administration, this beauty of an administration.I've been watching and I've seen that they are always trying to stop people from -- they're trying to come up with plans -- maybe low interest loans, maybe zero interest loans.I think they made a couple where they actually had the people -- they gave them the money at zero interest or whatever. And then they move, because they forgot to say, "you can't move, we are giving you money." This is the people that we owe.So here is the story, here is the story, it's very simple, I'm a free trader. But when trade isn't fair, and when things aren't fair, and when countries disrespect us, we are going to be very firm, very nice. I get along great with leadership, and I don't, again, I'm not angry at the leadership of Mexico or Japan or Vietnam; new strong Vietnam or China. I respect what they're doing in.What they have done is fantastic for them. For us? Horrible. So what we do is simple -- I have watched for many years and it is so basic. Half of the people -- and I know a few of the people here, they're great business people. They are friends of mine. They are friends of mine who came.There's one right over here. Stand up Albert. Where the hell are you Albert? Stand up Albert. He's a good golfer but I'm actually a better golfer than him. Right? I have a lot of friends in the room, great friends.Here is what we are going to do -- they're going to make their products. Here's what they want to do, they want to make their products, send it in, and sell it to Indiana and every other place like nothing happen. There is going to be consequences now.So we tell them, now, if you get there early enough before they build the plant, you say, "listen, we are really happy you are moving to Mexico. We think it is wonderful. Very hot, but it is wonderful. But here is the story, if you are going to move to Mexico, every single time you make an air conditioning unit we will charge you a 35 percent tax." OK?"We are not going to give you money or loan you money they don't need." They don't need money, they have plenty of money. This has nothing to do with loans or anything.So all these incentives that our government, which is complicated -- you know loaning money, giving money, and doing tax investments, it's not simple. And I guarantee you -- and I always joke, it is fun for me and I love business. I love it. And I have an instinct for it.I built an unbelievable company, some of the greatest assets in the world. I like it. The only problem is as President I should not be making the call. Right, I joked about this, but I should not be calling the head of an air conditioning company, right, but we have to do it. It's like three minutes.My wife would said, "you should not be calling the head of Carrier Air Conditioning, " but I say, "but honey, I'm telling you it is so easy." 'I have some of the greatest business leaders in the world to endorse me. Carl Icahn, great business leader and so many others.The reason they listen is because they know what I am doing. And so, what's happen is this, I get a call, OK, the worst, I will have one of my workers call. One of the people you would not like very much but who cares, you would wouldn't want them out for dinner. Some of them are nice but most are rather ruthless and vicious, but that is who I want negotiating. I don't want our political hacks negotiating, I want these guys.A few I have to do myself because it is fun. So we call then, and he will go, "yes, Mr. President, it is great honor talk to you." -- "It's a great honor to talk to you also. Listen, you're moving, I understand that you are leaving, you are going from Indiana to Mexico, right?" -- "Yes" -- "Well, I hope you change your mind." -- "Well sir, we won't."Now, you have to understand. I will be hit by every lobbyist and every special interest group in America in order to not make the call, in order to let the deal die, like Hillary Rodham Clinton. Hillary Rodham Clinton. So -- Crooked Hillary.So -- so look, here's the story.So normally, politicians -- so they're going to be calling, right? They'll call and they'll talk and they say, you know, this and that and they'll say, "Madam President." I don't want to hear that. I do want to hear it eventually because I want to see a woman become president, but it can't be her. She's a disaster.She's a disaster. She'll set you back a long way, women, if that happens. It'll be a long way before it happens again. You better be careful what you wish for.So here's the story. They'd say to Hillary -- they'd say, "You can't do that. They gave you $2 million." Or, "You can't do that. Your lobbyist paid you a fortune and raised millions of dollars." Or your -- she'll go, "You're right. I can't really do that." And that's the end of it, OK? That's the end.So they move to Mexico, they'll sell their goods, we have our 1400 people unemployed, and I'm talking about times thousands, times thousands of jobs, millions of jobs. Million of jobs. Now, here's the difference. Me, they call. "I don't care." Who is it? I know half of these guys anyway. I don't care. What do I want to take his call for? OK? Does nothing for me. You know, I spent 60 billion dollars so far in my campaign, right, 60. And I'm spending -- last week -- last month, I guess it was -- somebody said -- I thought it was two million and they said it was 3.8 million.It's really good when you don't know that it's 3.8, right?And I'm continuing, but I'm raising a lot of money. We're raising a lot of money for the Republican Party and it's coming in big league and it's coming in in small doses and that's something no other Republican's going to be able to do.Mike Pence was just saying it's an amazing thing. We raised like 27 million dollars for a partial month last month and we're doing equally well this month of -- and I think the average price was -- the average cost was like $61 or $64, something like that. And that doesn't happen. That happens for Bernie Sanders because it's a different kind of mentality and thinking.And by the way, poor Bernie. Poor -- he just wants to go home and go to sleep. Please.No. He wants to go to sleep. Who can blame him? Who can blame him?Who can blame him? He wants to go home. Did you see he left very early last night? He's exhausted. But we're going to get the Bernie people out of him, a lot more than people think, because I know the trade. He was right about one thing, trade. He said we're being screwed on trade and he's right.He's right. What's happening with trade is right. I will talk about it a little bit more. Then we're going to talk about the border, we're going to talk about our depleted -- you know, little things.But look, Bernie really hurt his legacy because if he would've gone all the way and if they would've had some kind of a march and then he goes and he goes back to being -- I think it's a lot better than the way he sold out to Hillary Clinton. He sold out. He sold out.I mean, other than trade -- and the problem is he knows trade's no good. The difference is I'll do something about it, big league. Because I like the trade, but we've got to make great deals.Somebody said to me, well, are you a free-trader? Yes. Are you a fair trade? Yes. I'm everything. I could name 10 different forms of trade. I know every one of them.Hey, the Wharton School of Finance right here in this great state, right? But -- but the best school, best school, number one, best school. OK.So, here's the story. So I can name all of them. So one of these characters back here -- look at all of them. You know, for a group of people that said why are you campaigning...... boy, do we have a lot of people back there. You know what? For a group of people that asked me this morning: Sir, this isn't traditional that you would be out on the stump. Why are you campaigning?Man, a hell of a lot of people showed up for this, didn't they? And look at it.Unbelievable.Unbelievable. Isn't it unbelievable? By the way, I have to tell you, they are the most dishonest human beings you'll ever meet. I really mean it -- the most; the most dishonest human beings you will ever meet.It's the safest place.The safest place.True. True.So, we're going to bring it all back. It's going to all come back. It's going to come back bigger and better than you've ever seen it before. You're going to have jobs flowing in, believe me. You're going to have the Carrier's of the world say I think I'm not going to leave because now we're playing with a different kind of mentality. They're not going to leave. Because they're going to say, "We're not leaving."Now, if they want to go to another state, that's different. You've got to all sort of negotiate with each other. Good luck, folks. Good luck -- our congressman. Good luck. But you know, when they start leaving our country for another country, because we're the stupid people, that's not going to happen, OK? That's just not going to happen.So if you look at what's going on right now in a place not so far away, a place that I happen to love called Philadelphia. I love it. You've got people that are fighting and trying to make their point. And they don't know what's happening. Because remember when I ran and everybody said, well, Trump won, like all of these people, all these professional politicians, and some very good people like Ben Carson, who's great; he endorsed me -- great people.But very capable people. And I wrote it down. They have these signs. OK? They haven't mentioned ISIS. They don't want it mentioned. Why? Because they created it. So they don't mention ISIS. I told you before, they don't mention our police or our law enforcement. And they wouldn't have those doors open for two minutes if it weren't for the police.They wouldn't have them open for two minutes.Their new name, which is the joke of all time, is that Crooked Hillary is a change maker. Do you see change? You know, they probably paid $2 million to the guy who came up with that slogan. And I came up with Crooked Hillary all by myself. Zero, no money.But change maker -- she's a change maker. So she's been doing this for like 30 years plus and she's going to be a change maker, right? She's not going to change because the special interests and her lobbyists will never ever let her change, believe me. They will never let her change even if she wanted to and she doesn't want to, OK?Look at TPP. So TPP, Transpacific Partnership, right, a horrible deal that she was totally in favor of. She said it was the gold standard not long ago. It's the gold standard of trade deals. Well, remember this. The worst deal ever signed from an economic standpoint in the history of our country, right, it's NAFTA.It was signed by who? Bill Clinton. Who by the way gave a speech last night but he didn't mention my favorite chapter, he left one chapter out. " I met a girl. I met a girl." You know, it's funny, when he started the speech last night, he said, "I met a girl." and I said, "that's politically incorrect."And I saw Rachel Maddow give him hell over that, "it's not a girl." But he said it, "I met a girl, " and a lot of people thought that was nice. But I said "watch", and Rachel Maddow knocked the hell out of him because he said, "I met a girl", it's supposed to be "I met a woman."I don't know. Maybe we will fight for him on that one, right? And didn't he say, "I then grabbed her " and I said, "this is getting a little crazy now, what's going on?" -- " I grabbed her."And then when he said that, I knew that my favorite chapter would happen. And it didn't happen. He didn't talk about the kinds of things we want to hear about. But what are you going to do?So look, here's the story, they call her a change maker, she's not a change maker. She wants to keep it just the way it is because it's a rigged system. She was very, very disloyal.Now the last person that I like is Debbie Wasserman-Schultz. This person is a disaster. And she has been for a long time. We will take our Reince Priebus any day, right, we will take him. Reince Priebus is a great guy, and he's done a great job. And we had a great convention, and I'll tell you what, Cleveland did a fantastic job. They did a fantastic job.But think of how disloyal Hillary Clinton was to Debbie. Think of it. This was her -- crooked person. This was a dishonest person. This was a person that was rigging the system for her. She rigged the system -- Carson never had a chance. His people never had a chance. I knew that. I was saying -- I'm the one that came up with the term rigged system, and I said it a year and a half ago pertaining to my system.And frankly, had I not won all of these states by massive landslides, I wouldn't be standing here. You'd have some stiff.And there'd be 10 people in the office. You know what? You'd have a different kind of a guy. There'd be about 12 people sitting in the first row. Our two congressmen wouldn't be here. They'd say, "We don't want to be here." It'd be a whole different thing and you'd be down 12 points instead of up seven in the state of Pennsylvania, right?Right? That's the way it is.But here's the thing. I'm a loyal person. When Cory had a problem, I was loyal. I stuck with her. Everyone said Cory should be fired. Why? I looked at her tape. What happened? I'm a loyal person. OK? I'm a loyal person. You've got to be loyal to people if they do nothing wrong.Now, in her case, she did a lot wrong, but she did it -- you know, she knew. Hillary Clinton knew what she was doing. She knew the system was rigged, as soon as she got caught because the emails came out -- and as soon as she got caught, Hillary Clinton said, "You're fired. Get her out of here. Get her out of here."That's what we have. It's weakness, it's disloyalty and this woman -- she wanted so hard -- remember, she went the other day in front of the Florida delegation. Oh did they rough her up. But she deserves it. Look, she's a dishonest person. She deserves it.But she rigged the system against Bernie in favor of Hillary and Hillary dumped her like so fast. So fast like I've never seen before. And that's not what it's about. Loyalty can be a wonderful thing, and in this case, I thought it was incredible what happened.Now, the things that were on those emails were incredible. You talk about race, religion. Women, by the way, if I ever said the things that are on those emails, I would've been run out of town and probably, had I gotten the nomination, I would've been forced to come to Scranton, stand right here and say I'm getting out of the race.They were the worst things and they're trying to sluff them off. They're trying so hard to sluff them off. And then I see her campaign manager -- I don't know. Young guy, nice guy, who knows? And he's on television and he said that Russia hacked them.What did I do?But I'll never forget it. I'm sitting. I'm watching every -- you know, falling asleep. He's a boring guy.And he said Russia with emails -- probably was China or somebody else. Might be a 400-pound person sitting in bed. OK? Might be. Some of the greatest hackers of all time.But he said Russia, and then he said Trump. And I -- it reminded me of Jon Lovitz. You ever see the liar Jon Lovitz, right, in Saturday Night Live? "Yeah, yeah. I went to Harvard. Harvard, that's right." This was like -- yeah, Russia hacked. Yeah. Yeah, it was Trump. Trump. That's -- I'd say whoa. What?Now, these are lying, bad people, folks. These are bad, bad people. These are bad, bad people. And they're incompetent people. And we want to turn our country around. We want to make great trade deals.We want to have strong borders. We want to have the wall. We want the wall. We're going to have the wall. Because we're going to stop drugs from pouring into our country and people from pouring into our country.We want the wall.All right. I'll give you a quiz. Do you want the quiz? Who's going to pay for the wall?Who?100 percent, 100 percent. You know, I have these clowns. And you can hold it -- just, I mean, honestly, you hold me to it. I have these clowns in the back, these pundits. And they're saying, Mexico's never going to pay for the wall; Mexico -- do you know how much money they make from us each year? And I'm not including with the drugs. I'm leaving that out. No.Which really is a terrible thing, because when I won New Hampshire, the New Hampshire people were unbelievable -- my first victory was in New Hampshire. Where, by the way, I hear I have a seven point lead, you know?You know, I've got to tell you. It's funny. I have people, politicians, they're running. And some of them embraced me, like these two characters, OK? But some of them said, oh, Trump, he's too controversial.And then I run. I don't care if they -- you know, if they endorse me or not, it doesn't make any difference to me. I think I do better -- I might do better without endorsements. But I have states -- the great Rob. Stand up, Rob. Will you please? Take a bow for two seconds.So, and if I don't win this state, you'll never be standing up again.That I can do.Mike? You better believe it.Then the poll comes out where I'm leading that senator, whoever it may be, by a hell of a lot. And all of a sudden, we love Mr. Trump; he's great for America.This is what we deal with, folks. OK? This is what we deal with. But in New Hampshire, I've got a nice lead, supposedly. I mean, a poll came out, seven points, eight points, more -- something like that; a very good lead. We're doing well. We're doing well in states.And remember this, if a person on the stage with me, and I speak well of all of them now, because it would be nice if the party unified. I don't think it matters from my standpoint. I really don't. I don't think it matters, but it would be nice. I don't know why, but it would be nice, because we have to win.But I will say this. We open up states, meaning me, meaning you. You know, we're together. I'm a messenger. I'm a messenger. That's all I am. Believe me. Believe me.I'm a messenger.It's what I am. That's what I am. You know, I was using this phrase for the last couple of months, and I use it again: America First. I use another one -- but I use another one. I use another one: the forgotten man.Now, I have to add "and woman," but there is an whole thing going around. It's called the forgotten man. It's the forgotten men and women. We have forgotten men and women who work hard, who are making less money than they made 18 years ago, who are working much harder than they worked 18 years ago, and now their older.They can't afford their health insurance -- who hate looking at what's happening. They can't stand the fact that a priest in France has his throat cut and he lies dying on the ground. They can't stand the fact that we are letting thousands, and thousands, and thousands of people pour into our country from areas of the world.We are going to have problems like you've never seen, I am very good at prognostication, folks, you're seeing that everything I've said has all come true pretty much.And Hillary Clinton wants 550 percent more than Obama -- of people coming in from that area of the world. We don't have documentation, we don't have paperwork, we don't really know who they are. I've spoken to the best law enforcement people in this country and they say, "there is really no way of saying who they are and where they come from, " OK?They even stole our passport machine, did you see that? They stole our passport machine some of people, they're going to cause problems. And with me, we're going to do safe zones, were going to help people. We're going to get the Gulf states to pay because I don't want to pay.With our country, we are $19 trillion -- and is going to be $21 trillion very soon. We are going to build safe zones, and we are going to get the Gulf states that we protect, they wouldn't be there -- they have nothing but money and they're going to pay for this. And we are going to build them in Syria and were going to take care of people.But you know what? We're not going to pay for it because we can't pay for it. This isn't 40 years ago, this isn't 20 years ago, this is now. And we are going to make our country so strong, and were going to re-negotiate our military deals.You know, I'm taking a lot of heat where they say, "NATO", all I said is, "we have many countries, there are 28 countries in NATO, right? There are five that are paying their way." The others -- you don't get it straight. They say back there, "Donald trump doesn't like NATO." Well, I think it's great, I just said, "it was obsolete."Wolf Blitzer on CNN asked me a question. He's fine. He said, "what do you think of NATO"? You have to understand, I have been a businessman but I have good common sense in business. And so, I said, "NATO is obsolete because it's not covering terrorism." And everybody smiled and laughed, and thought it was funny, three days later they are now saying, "Trumps right, It's not covering terrorism"And then a few weeks later, check out the Wall Street Journal. A few weeks later -- front page says, "NATO to open up terrorism division." I said, "great." -- and to appoint the great guys, one of their good guys, who knows. Who the heck knows if he's any good? We need your help, father.So that was right. Then I said the second thing so I said, "it's obsolete, " so they're working on that. I like it, I think NATO is fine, but we have to adjust. You can't go so many years with no adjustments, so now they have that.I also said because I heard this, that people aren't paying their fair share, they're not paying their way. And then these stupid people, they say, "but we have a treaty." They said, "what would happen if Russia or somebody attacks?" I said, " I don't know. Have they paid? Have they paid? Have they paid tell me? Have they paid. Well, they haven't paid.Well they said, "we have a treaty." Well, I said, "they have a treat too that they have to pay." We are going to end up in World War III protecting people -- and these people can't pay. We are going to protect them -- and there's an article right here that says -- cover, Trump is right. Five countries out of 28 are paying their way.So I want them to pay. And here's the story: they will pay if asked by the right person. They'll pay. They'll pay. And Hillary Clinton said, "We will protect our allies at all costs." Well, how the hell can you get money if you're going to say that? And we need money. We have massive, massive deficits. We need money.We need money. So it sounds cold, it sounds terrible. And then tonight, you'll listen to Obama saying, "Donald Trump wants to give up NATO." He doesn't say it right. I want to keep NATO, but I want them to pay. I don't want to be taken advantage of. We don't want to be the stupid people anymore, OK?Now, if they live up to their obligations, as they should -- and by the way, if they do that, they'll have more spirit in a certain way. OK? But they have to pay. Same thing with Japan and Germany. Can you believe -- a lot of people -- before I ran, did anybody know that we were protecting and paying for a large portion of the protection of Japan, which sells us cars by the millions and Germany and Saudi Arabia and South Korea? We sort of knew because we have 20,000 soldiers on the border.So I said here it is. You've got to pay -- got to pay. So I talk about Japan. Love Japan. Many friends in Japan. Great country. They sell us cars. I mean, you talk about rip-offs. You want to see a trade imbalance? We sell them wheat, they sell us cars. We sell them beef and they don't even take the beef because their farmers say, "We don't want American beef, " right? Even though it's the greatest beef in the world, they don't want it. They don't want it.So we sell them beef, they sell us cars. It's the greatest trade imbalance. You've got to see it. It's like the floor is us, the ceiling is Japan. We're not doing anything about it. We don't do -- but on top of it, we protect Japan.So a general gets on, sent obviously by Obama, and he said, "Mr. Trump doesn't understand. He knows nothing about defense." I know more about offense and defense than they will ever understand, believe me. Believe me. Than they will ever understand. Than they will ever understand.So I said -- and this is a general. Now, if he says this number, it's actually lower. He said, "Doesn't he understand that Japan pays for 50 percent of its production and its -- of the work we do?" OK. They pay for 50 percent of the defense that we give them, of the military protection that we give them. So the newspaper calls up and they say, "Mr. Trump, sir, they pay for 50 percent of the military." I say, "Why aren't they paying for 100 percent of their -- why?"And the reporter goes, "Oh, never thought of that." They don't think of that stuff.But look, Germany. Now, I don't mind and I understand all the reasons why and we don't want them to arm and all that stuff. But you know, the man that we know so well who's always threatening everybody in the region, North Korea, if he all of a sudden gets a little more frisky than just words, we end up in a massive war protecting somebody.Now, here's our treaty with Japan. Again, I love Japan. I respect Japan. I respect what they've been able to negotiate. I think it's great. But here's our treaty with Japan. If they get attacked, we have to protect them, essentially world war three, right? If we get attacked, they don't have to do anything. OK? They don't have to do anything. No good. No good.Then they'll say, Donald Trump -- you'll hear it tonight; they have all these guys lined up -- Donald Trump doesn't know about -- I know so much.Now, if we...And I actually saw it today on television. I saw a couple of people. They called me -- one guys calls me -- he's a teacher at a big college: Could I come up to your office with my students? I said, oh, this is just what I want. Oh, I'm so busy.He comes up. I treat him nice. It's a while ago -- comes up, treat him nice, take pictures with all these students. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Goes back.Then I see him on television today -- I know nothing about -- because I cannot tie the fact that they're not paying into the -- why? Why? Am I right? I mean, you know, give me a break.So, people agree with me, but they don't tell you the story. A lot of them said, headlines, Donald Trump doesn't like NATO; he wants to get out of NATO. They don't say what we're talking about. So when they hear what they're talking about, everybody says, you know, you're right.So right in a headline, in a major newspaper two days ago, five countries out of 28 are paying their way. The rest of them aren't. Some are paying nothing. Because there's nobody to ask them. There's nobody to ask them.So we're not going to be the stupid country anymore. We're not going to be led by stupid people anymore. And we're going to do such...So, I'm a good negotiator. So we get in a room with these folks. I tell them pretty tough stories because I mean it. Because you always have to be prepared to walk. You have to be. You cannot go into a negotiation unless you're prepared to walk. I'm prepared to walk from a bad deal as a bad deal anyway.So I'm prepared. You guys are I guarantee it prepared to walk. You've lost half of your businesses. I mean, I'm not going to go into it, but I look at Scranton -- Pennsylvania has lost one in three manufacturing jobs. Right? Look at these numbers. Look at these numbers. Look at these numbers. Scranton has lost 43 percent of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. It's not -- this is just -- 43 percent of your manufacturing jobs.And I'm trying to figure out why. They have the National Review and some of these conservative groups -- he wants to renegotiate this. He says we're losing a fortune on these deals. So if I negotiate these deals, and I make them from bad deals to good deals and maybe even great deals, why would anybody be upset? They're upset about it.I don't get it. But I don't care because I'll do it. OK? I'm going to do it. But -- but nobody understands.Now, today or yesterday, Hillary Clinton said, first time ever in her life, right? "I am going to renegotiate trade deals." Not one mention of my name in the article. Not one mention. Not one mention. TPP, gold standard, right? She had the gold standard. She then saw me on television knocking the hell out of it because they don't -- they don't talk about currency manipulation and devaluation. They don't talk about many of the problems.Plus, you know what? I want to make a deal not a massive number of countries. I want to make a deal one-on-one, individual countries. Nice and simply. Nice and simple. Nice and simple.One, two, three. You we don't like. You're bad. Four, fix. No good. Six.These deals are so complicated. So it's a 5,000-page document that the only people in Congress that read are our two congressmen. And I promise you, they didn't read them either. OK? Don't worry.So this is a 5,000-page document that nobody read. Remember Obamacare? Remember when Obama came out, it was thousands of pages and they went to Congress and nobody read it? And then, you had the wise guy from one of the good schools and he said it was a con job. He said it was a con job and everybody was going to just go after that guy. And you know what happens? A couple of weeks go by, they'll forget. But I remember and I -- I will bring it up.Remember the guy? He said that Obamacare was a con job. Remember that? It was all a big con. And two weeks go by and they -- sort of fades, and then four weeks go by it's over. But it's not over with me.So here's the thing. I want to do individual countries because what happens is when you do a lot of countries, number one, too complicated. You have all -- you've got to see the lines on this thing. I looked at it -- 5,000 pages. You've got to see the things. It's here, here, here. It's like the craziest thing. Impossible. And if the country -- one of the countries is bad, you can't get out because it's such a complicated web.I want to make trade deals with individual countries. Nice and simple. Nice and beautiful. Nice and beautiful.And if the country misbehaves or takes advantage of us, like they always do, we just send them a notice. "Sorry, here's your 25-day notice." OK? We're breaking off -- and you know what they'll do? They'll call up and -- "What do we have to do to keep it going?" OK? We'll make a better deal. It's what we do.So look. Folks, we are going to make this country so strong again. We're going to build up our military; it's totally depleted. We're going to build a wall. We're going to take care of our veterans. Our veterans are our great people. We're going to take care of our veterans.We're going to take care of our vets. They've been forgotten. So many people have been forgotten.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.I just ask you this one thing. I didn't need this and neither do you. Sitting in this room is about 200 degrees. OK? The only good thing is you lose a lot of weight.But look, what I ask you is this. You have to go November 8th and you have to vote or we've just all wasted our time.This is a movement, but it's only really a movement if we win. I -- I tell the story a lot about people that tell me what you've done has never been done in politics before and all that stuff. I say no, it doesn't mean anything. If I knew that I wasn't going to win, I wouldn't even waste my time doing it. I wouldn't waste my time.They said, "No, no. In terms of history, what you've done has never been done." I said, "It doesn't mean a thing unless we win." OK? Doesn't mean a thing because we can't do what we're going to do.And it's so simple. We're going to make thing fair. We're going to make things fair. So I only asks you one thing. Get every person you know. We have to win the state of Pennsylvania. And I can't believe she has many fans here.I can't believe she has many fans here. I don't believe she has many fans here.And the miners and the steel workers and the executives and the professors, we've got them all. We have to get out there. We have to vote. We can't sit back because this is a really vital state. And you're going to see because she's got a billion dollars to blow and she'll put on these crazy ads, much of which is wrong. I'd go into it, but I don't want to even bother. But they're wrong. They're false.But she's going to put on all these ads, and you know what? They're false ads. Thank you, darling. I love you, too. Look at her. I love them.But look. Look. Thank you. She's going to put ads. You know, when I was running in Florida, I won in a landslide. I went through two weeks of ads. I was down there. I said this is the most incredible thing I've ever seen. You couldn't see -- I was dying to see an ivory soap ad...But there wasn't, because Trump was -- all negative ads and I won in a massive landslide. So somehow, people understand the truth because they're really phony ads and false ads and vicious.But here's the story. Come November 8th, you have to get out and vote because it is a movement and it's a movement like nobody's seen. They're talking about it all over the world. We're on the cover of Time Magazine every two hours. Many covers of Time Magazine because of what's happened.And you know, my whole life, I've been on Time Magazine I think a couple of times. My whole life. Not so bad. And the last number of months, I think it's six or seven times, right? That's pretty good. So you tell me. What's more important, real estate or politics, right?But what really is more important is making America great again, and that's what we're going to do.I love you. Thank you very much. Get out and vote November 8th. I love you. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you. Thank you very much. So I have to tell you this. This is why our country doesn't work. You understand. So, we have thousands of people in a room next door. We have plenty of space here. We have thousands of people waiting outside to get in, And, we have a fire marshal who says, "Oh we can't allow more people. It really is so unfair to the people. I'm so sorry. And, I have to apologize. But, it's not my fault. I just came here. But, we have thousands of beautiful, wonderful, great people in the room next door, and outside, and they won't let 'em in. And, the reason they won't let 'em in is because they don't know what the hell they're doing. That's why. OK? Too bad.That's why our country has prob- Maybe they're a Hillary person? Could that be possible? Probably. I don't think there are too many of them. I don't think there are too many of them.And, and, by the way, they're going to let some of these people, I was just informed, they're going to let some of them meander in... meander. Too bad.But lemme just tell you. So, Thursday to Thursday. That's the big one, right? Thursday, we beat her by millions on television. Millions. MILLIONS! We beat her by a lot. They both did good. We beat her by a lot. But honestly, the numbers were incredible. Which tells you... which tells you, isn't it good to have Trump running for the presidency?Now, let me ask you. So we beat her, we beat her. And I think you tuned in out of curiosity with her. Most people -- I was actually more curious. I was curious to see whether she'd do a class act and not mention my name or mention it with respect, like, say, I'd like to congratulate my Republican opponent for having done something that nobody has ever done in the history of politics in this nation.And I would like to congratulate gotten more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican Party in the primary season. See, I thought she might do something like that. I thought she'd give me a big fat beautiful congratulations.If she did that, would that have been cool? Would that have been great? I thought her daughter did very well, by the way, Chelsea. My daughter likes Chelsea, and Chelsea likes my daughter. What are you going to do? That's the way it is. That's OK.My daughter likes Chelsea. Ivanka did great, right? But I asked Ivanka, I said, do you like Chelsea? I do, dad. Really? No, I really do. I wish you didn't. It would be a lot easier. Right? No, but they like -- and Chelsea likes Ivanka. I think that's nice.And that's the way life is. That's the way life should be, right? Don't we agree? It's OK. It's OK. But we had -- I had an amazing time. I watched last night as different people spoke. Much of it was scripted. Much of it was scripted.I see some people -- you know what was funny? I said yesterday at one of the rallies. We had these massive rallies. Honestly, much bigger than this, but not much bigger if you let all the other thousands in. Much bigger. This is like an intimate gathering. It's true, it's true, but I said to some of the people, look at that.And then yesterday at the rally, I said boy, because I had some people up there that I knew. I actually saw their names. I was like, why would they put them up, they're going to speak positively about me?I was wrong. I said, I'm going to hit them, I'm going to get them. I'm going to start talking about them like you never believed. I'm going to hit them -- now, I'm talking about with my verbal. I'm going to get them.I'm going to let them have it. Maybe a tweet or maybe this or that, but I'm going to hit them hard. So on CNN this morning, I see on the bottom, Trump says he's going to hit speakers. I mean, they are so dishonest. I'm going to hit speakers.That's why we have to win, right? That's why we have to win. I'll tell you, CNN is really -- you know, they call it the Clinton News Network. It's really a dishonest group of people. They are terrible. Oh, their camera just went off.I see their red lights. I know all the cameramen by now. Hi, fellas, but I see the red lights. That red light just went off so fast. It was funny. We were having fun yesterday. They said really bad things. I'm going to hit them, I'm going to hit them hard. We're going to get them.In fact, I even called up a friend of mine, a governor. He actually called me. He said, you're doing great, fantastic. I talked about the thing. He said, don't go anything, don't do anything, don't say anything bad about anybody, don't talk -- I told him the story yesterday.Then they put Trump to hit because some place it said I'm going to hit them hard. I mean, verbally, right? Does everybody understand? Headline, Trump threatens. I don't know if they said that.But it is really -- I'll tell you, CNN is so dishonest. It's actually disgusting, you want to know the truth. So I love -- isn't it better when we don't have these teleprompters? Right? I watched -- no matter where she goes, she's got teleprompters and I like using teleprompters.They're really good. But honestly, when you do these things, wouldn't it be -- OK, if I'm standing here like this and I'm going, ladies and gentlemen of Colorado, welcome, welcome.So... a lot of things happen. Now, I found last night interesting. 'Cause we're gonna' get a lot of Bernie supporters, I think. And, Bernie made a big mistake. The mistake he made -- and, this is the beauty of doing speeches like this and I saw it and she was thanking Bernie and talking about Bernie and he's sitting there, like, glum. Did you notice? No smile. His wife pats him on the back and she pulled her hand away. Whoa, huh, huh, huh. Whoa! Did you see that? "A pat on the back, darling. I love you" And pulls it back. And, uh, she was a little bit concerned there.But, he was angry. And then a second time they showed him, and he was angry. And, you know what. Honestly, he made a big mistake. Because, we have the best movement of all. We have far more people than anybody. We have the most important -- I tell people, Bill O'Reilly said the greatest single phenomena he's ever seen in politics. This is us. All of us. All of us. You. You. You. You. You. All the people outside. Man! They had people lined up in the driveway, all the way up.But-but-this is one of the greatest movements in the history of our country. Our movement is much better than Bernie. By the way, I'll tell you why Bernie blew it. He sold his soul to the devil. He did. He had a great thing. I was so surprised. 'Cause, he was, like, a tough guy. He was like tough, tough, tough. And, then, in the end, he folded. And, I said yesterday. And, it's true. He wanted to go home. He wanted to go to sleep. OK. That's what it was.But, you know, had he not folded. And his people haven't folded. 'Cause his people were angry.Now, just to show you how unfair it is, if that would have happened at the Republican convention, they would have said, "catastrophic evening." People are screaming. Did you see when they had the moment of silence for the police? And, by the way, the only reason the police were up there on that stage on the fourth night was because I was complaining they don't have any police up there. Right? They put the police up because thy were getting a lot of heat. But, they don't mean it. The difference is, I mean it. OK? We're gonna' be law and order. And, I mean it. We're gonna' be great. We're gonna' be great.But, did you see what happened when they had the moment of silence for the police? Tough situation. Tough situation. Not good. Not good. And, then you have Bernie, and he makes the deal. And, they pick a vice president that's exactly the opposite of Bernie, OK? He believes in TPP -- which is a disaster, by the way, we'll never approve it. They'll approve it.And, how about when Terry McAuliffe, the Governor of Virginia, comes out and said, "Don't worry. Hillary will approve it after the election? See, that's the way it is. And, it will take your jobs away almost as bad as NAFTA, which was approved by Bill Clinton. Right? NAFTA. A disaster. NAFTA has cleaned out so many states in this country. I -- you know -- look at New York state. You look at New York state. You look at New England. You look at Pennsylvania. What NAFTA has done to Pennsylvania with these companies moved to Mexico.A friend of mine is a builder. He builds plants. Plants. Big, big plants. Big, big plants. One of the biggest. Maybe I'll use him to build the wall. What a good idea. Got a lot of smart people. Somebody shouts out, "Let him build the wall."We have smart people. But, this guy builds big, big plants. Automobile plants and, uh, computer technology plants. That's what he builds. He builds plants. One of the biggest. Maybe the biggest. One of the biggest.And, he started off building plants in the United States years ago. And, he'd build plants in the United States. So, I see him the other day, and I said, How's it going? "Good." How's business? "Unbelievable" I said, great. I thought that was good for the United States, right? I said, how many plants you building? "Many," he said. "You've gotta see what's happening in Mexico."Now, by the way, this guy's better than a consultant. If I hire a consultant, I hire some guy that, you know, is terrible, to tell me what's happening. Right? They'll charge you a million bucks. They'll give you a report in seven months from now. They have to take a long time, otherwise they can't charge as much. This guy tells me in two minutes -- in one minute! I learned better from him talking to him about how's business than I can learn from some phony consultant. Because, if he was any good, he would have been the one building the plants, right? You know? So... so, an amazing thing. An amazing thing. So, I said, so what's going on? He says, "You gotta' see Mexico. It's the eighth wonder of the world."He said, "We are building the biggest, the most sophisticated, the most incredible plants all over Mexico." I said, well what about the United States? "Not so good." Like, who cares? And, actually, he'd much rather build in the United States. But, not so good. He said, "Not so good." And, I said, well what does that mean? He said, "Well, we're doing a little work. But not much. But, Donald, you have to see Mexico." I say no thanks. But, he goes -- he goes -- he goes, "What we're doing there is incredible." How stupid are we, folks?How stupid are we? Our companies are moving to Mexico and other places. While Crooked Hillary Clinton -- who is as crooked as a three-dollar-bill -- while Crooked Hillary Clinton sits there and makes up stories. "Donald Trump didn't do well in his campaign." I said, I just beat eighteen people or seventeen people. Whatever. No. No. It's all written by... It's all written -- what!? By a Politico. I can't believe I'm talking about Politico. 'Cause Politico is terrible to me. But Politico write all cliches. Not good. OK. But, somebody wrote it. She probably didn't notice it. But, I'm being recognized for having done one of the most legendary campaigns in the history of politics in this country.And she had a speech this morning and she's reading teleprompters. You know, if she has a group of 12 people, she's got teleprompters in front. And then she doesn't do news conferences. She hasn't done one in, like, what is it, 237 days? Something like that. She hasn't done a news conference in something like 237 days. And -- and honestly, the reason is, you couldn't do a news conferences because they'll ask her about all the different things that she's done. They'll ask her about the FBI saying she's a liar. They'll ask her about all of the emails that she deleted or erased or got rid of. 33,000 emails.You know the ones that were done -- the ones that were done for her yoga class, right. Yoga. Yoga. The ones that were done for the wedding. 33,000. I've done a lot of weddings. I haven't sent -- oh, 33,000. I mean, how stupid is everybody? How stupid are we to hear this? 33,000 emails for the yoga. Yoga, and a wedding, and they were personal.I'll bet you in this room we have people that probably -- I'm not a big email person. You know why? I'm intelligent. I know about email. I'm not -- I don't like email. You know what I like? I like the old days. I like the -- because today they just announced somebody else was hacked and another group was hacked. Everybody's being hacked. OK They have no idea who's doing it. They have no idea who's doing it.These things are amazing. You know, the kids growing up, I have a young boy, Baron. He's very smart but he's using the computer so much we put it on lock, right. No way he can find out. I mean, I don't know what happened. So we go back about an hour later, and he's playing with the computer. We had it on lock. And we said, wait a minute, we had it on lock. You needed a sequential number. And we said, Baron, how did you do that? I'm not telling you, dad.No, this kid's a genius. And it's getting worse and worse because they live with it. You know, I grew up and it was a certain age they start, now they live with it. It's like -- it's like their right arm. They can do it so well. And I like the old days, especially for the military and things like that, right. You want to attack. Or you want to do something. It's called courier. It's called let's put it in a thing, put it in an envelope and let's hand it to the general.Let's not send it over the wires so everybody's probably reading it, right?And no matter how good -- no matter how good they say it is, it's not -- I mean, people can hack it, I guess. It's just terrible, and you know, if you talk about military, if you talk about all these secrets, and you even talk about politics or you talk about all of this stuff, it's very confidential stuff. And then you find out the hacking is all over the place.I hear China is brutal. They say Russia is excellent. And you have guys sitting in their home that are very good. You have people, men and women, sitting in their homes that are better than the people that are the inventors. And I don't know. There's something about -- you know, General Douglas McArthur, right? They've had a guy come, he says, sir, here it is. That's it. The risk is from there to there.General George Patton. I guarantee you, General George Patton, who was rough as hell, he wouldn't be doing emails when he's going to be ready to attack. If he were around, he'd say, I don't like that system at all. So -- thank you, darling. I love you. I --I love you. I love you and I think it's a guy. I mean, I don't know. Who the hell cares. Thank you. No, it's not. Beautiful. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Now I see you. I like that much better. I appreciate that. So -- thank you, honey. I don't know. Hey, the thousands of people on the other side that the fire marshals aren't being very nice to, they don't love me so much right now. OK. But that's OK. And we're going to come over and see them when this is finished. Should I do that or should I stay with you longer? Let's go over, right?We'll come over. We're going to come over. We're going to come over. So a lot of things happened. I found last night, interesting, because we're going to get a lot of Bernie supporters, I think. And -- and Bernie made a big mistake. The mistake he made, and this is the beauty of doing speeches like this because it was late in the night and I saw it.And she was thanking Bernie and talking about Bernie. And he's sitting there like glum. Did you notice that? No smile. His wife pats him on the back. And she pulled her hand away. Whoa. Whoa. Did you see that? A pat on the back. Darling, I love you. And pulls it back. And she was a little bit concerned there. But he was angry. And then a second time they showed him, he was angry.And you know what, honestly, he made a big mistake because we have the best movement of all. We have far more people than anybody. We have the most important -- I tell people, Bill O'Reilly said the greatest thing, the phenomenon he's ever seen in politics. This, us, all of us.All of us. You, you, you, you, you. All the people outside. Man. There are people lined up in the driveway all the way up. But this is one of the great movements in the history of our country. Our movement is much better than Bernie. But I'll tell you what, Bernie blew it. He sold his soul to the devil. He did. He had a great thing.I was so surprised because he seemed like a tough guy. He was like tough, tough, tough, tough. And then in the end, he folded. And I said yesterday -- and it's true. He wanted to go home. He wanted to go to sleep. OK, that's what it was.But you know, had he not folded and his people haven't folded because his people were angry. Now just to show you how unfair it is, if that would have happened in the Republican convention, they would have said, catastrophic evening, people are screaming. Did you see when they had the moment of silence for the police? And by the way, the only reason the police were up on that stage on the fourth night was because I was complaining they don't have any police up there, right?They put the police up because they were getting a lot of heat. But they don't mean it. The difference is I mean it, OK. We're going to be law and order, and I mean it. We're going to be great. We're going to be great.But did you see what happened when they had the moment of silence for the police? Tough situation. Tough situation. Not good. Not good. And then you had Bernie and he makes the deal. And then they pick a vice president that's exactly the opposite of Bernie. OK. He believes in TPP, which is a disaster, by the way. We'll never approve it. They'll approve it. How about where Terry McAuliffe, the governor of Virginia, comes out and said, don't worry, Hillary will approve it after the election.See, that's the way it is. And it will take your jobs away almost as bad as NAFTA, which was approve by Bill Clinton. Right? NAFTA, a disaster. NAFTA has cleaned out so many states in this country. I -- look, New York state, you look at New York state, you look at New England, you look at Pennsylvania, what NAFTA has done to Pennsylvania where these companies moved to Mexico. A friend of mine is a builder. He builds plants. Plants. If you told him to build a department, he wouldn't know where to begin. He builds plants. Big, big plants. One of the biggest. And he -- maybe I'll use him to build the wall. What a great idea.I got a lot of smart people. Somebody shouts out, let him build a wall.We will.We have smart people. But this guy builds big, big plants. You know, automobile plants and computer, technology plants. And this is what he builds. He builds plants. One of the biggest, maybe the biggest. One of the biggest. And he started off building in the United States years ago. And he'd build plants in the United States. So I see him the other day and I say, how's it going? Good. How's business? Unbelievable.I said, great. I thought that was good for the United States. Right? I said, how many plants you building? Many. He said, you've got to see what's happening in Mexico. Now, by the way, this guy's better than a consultant. If I hire a consultant, I'll hire some guy that, you know, that's terrible, to tell me what's happening. Right? They'll charge a million bucks. He'll give you a report in seven months from now. They have to take a long time, otherwise they can't charge as much.This guy tells me in two minutes. In one minute I learned better about what's happening from him, talking to him about how's his business, than I can learn from some phony consultant because if he was any good, he would have been the one building the plants, right, you know. So --So an amazing thing. An amazing thing. So I said, so what's going on? He goes, you got to see Mexico. It's the eighth wonder of the world. He said, we are building the biggest, the most sophisticated, the most incredible plants all over Mexico.I said, what about the United States? Not so good. Like, who cares. And actually, he'd much rather build in the United States but not so good. He said not so good. And I said, what does that mean? He said, well, we're doing a little work but not much. But, Donald, you have to see Mexico. I said, no thanks. But he goes, he goes, he goes, what we're doing there is incredible.How stupid are we, folks? How stupid are we? Our companies are moving to Mexico and other places while Crooked Hillary Clinton, who's crooked as a $3 bill, while Crooked Hillary Clinton sits there and makes up stories. Donald Trump didn't do well in his campaign. I said, I just beat 18 people or 17 people, whatever. Donald Trump -- no, no, it was all written by -- all written by -- it's what Politico. I can't believe I'm talking about Politico. Because Politico is terrible to me.But Politico wrote all cliches, not good, OK. But somebody wrote it, she probably didn't notice it. But I'm being recognized for having done one of the most legendary campaigns in the history of politics in this country. And --And she puts in her thing right after the tweet, if somebody tweets, he gets upset. I get upset? I don't get upset. I didn't get upset. Somebody wrote that. You know, it was a nice little sound bite. Right? They just announced I have over 22 million between Twitter and Facebook. 22 million people. Like, I don't get upset. If somebody tweets, I do what I do. Who cares?I think -- I'll tell you, I think I have the best temperament or certainly one of the best temperaments of anybody that's ever run for the office of president. Ever. Because I have a winning temperament. I know how to win because my whole life I've been winning. My whole life I've been winning. And I think I have one of the best temperaments because we have to start winning, folks. We don't win anymore. We can't beat ISIS. We can't beat China in trade. And then they go and build this massive fort in the middle of the South China Sea, which they're not supposed to be doing. They only do it because they don't respect us.So they take our money, they take our jobs, they take everything. They sell us the products. No tax, come on in. Our manufacturers want to sell to China. They can't get in. And if they ever do get in, they have to pay a tax. It's so high. Or they have to build their plants over there. And they don't even want them to do that. Honestly, friend of mine, great, he said, he said, well, we don't want your product. And then they gave a tax -- which I won't even say because it's so high nobody's going to believe it.But then they said build your plant over here but we don't even want you to. We don't even want -- they don't even want us there, OK. They don't want us to build. Now, Boeing, they ordered 300 jets, and they made Boeing build massive plants. And watch what happens in Seattle and watch what happens in a number of years when those plants are built. Watch what happens in South Carolina, where I love those people in South Carolina. They gave me the biggest victory. Remember I was supposed to lose?I was supposed to lose. Highly evangelical, but the evangelicals love me. Highly evangelical, I won with the evangelicals, highly military. South Carolina, big military. Colorado, big military.Big military. Big. And I went in and you watch what they do. South Carolina built big Boeing plants. They have a big, big plant. Beautiful. I love seeing it. I love seeing this stuff. They actually move part of their operation from Seattle. Seattle, big plants. So they think it's good. New plants, everything good. Great people, great labor force. But China is forcing them to build plants in China.Now when China devalues its currency and when Boeing, in a number of years -- just remember I said it. Oh, don't worry, if I'm president, it won't happen. It won't happen. President.If I'm president, Boeing will be very happy, believe me, because it won't -- they may be unhappy that they built the plant in China, but they're not going to have to worry about South Carolina and Seattle. But remember I said it. Just in case we don't make it because you people get lazy and don't vote, OK. Colorado is very important. Very important. So just remember I said it. When that plant's finished, when they start operating, and when China does a massive devaluation of its currency, and when you go and order your brand new jetliners for all of the different airlines and when they find out that the planes are going to be made in China, not in South Carolina and not in Seattle, not in this country, because we have people that are incompetent running our country.When you see that, and I hope you don't see that because if you see that, that means that I didn't win and that won't be good. That won't be good. So here's the story, folks. When you see that, if you see that, it'll be a sad day. And I told the Boeing folks, I said to Boeing, I said, you know, you have a big investment. What happens if the plant that they're being forced to build in China becomes much more active and you start making all of your planes there. Oh, well, I don't think that will ever happen.Watch. Watch. We're dealing with grand masters of currency manipulation. One of the reasons among many that I'm against Transpacific Partnership is they don't cover currency manipulation. And in fact, one of my opponents in politics fought very, very hard that no currency manipulation be mentioned in the documents.This is a U.S. politician. I won't mention the name. I won't -- I should but I won't.The people -- you know what, call Washington. They'll tell you. They didn't want currency manipulation mentioned. Currency manipulation is the single biggest tool that foreign governments use to beat us. And to destroy our companies and to destroy our trade. And to get rich and to rebuild their countries as we suffer. We're like a third-world country. We have rotten airports. We have airports -- you go over to Dubai, you go over to places in China, you go over to other places in the Middle East, you'll see airports the likes of which you've never seen.I went to Dubai a number of years ago, and they were treating me great. I mean, it was great. Great visit, unbelievable what's happened there. But they have an airport that's so unbelievable. So the head of the airline is showing me around. And it's really good. And I'm looking at the terminal. I say, this is one of the most -- and I'm good, I'm -- you know, I'm a really good builder. I build under budget and ahead of schedule.By the way, I had a meeting with your great newspaper, and I really like the editorial board of that newspaper, OK. You know who I'm talking about. These are great people. And they were telling there's a veteran's administration hospital that had a $1.2 billion cost overrun in this area. No, no, think of that. Think of this. I'm building a hotel in Washington, and I'm under budget and ahead of schedule by one year. Think of it. And it's peanuts compared to $1.2 billion.What is this? That's just a cost overrun. And this is happening all over the country. When you build a road, when you build an airport. Some of the richest people in this country are people that can't even read or write. They're called friends of mine, contractors.They might not read or write, but they're a lot smarter than the guys coming out of Harvard. I want to tell you. They can take them -- they can take them and wrap them around their finger. No, I did an editorial board meeting a little while ago. I really like that group. Of course, if they write badly about me, I'll take it back. OK. We'll be back here again many times. You'll get so sick of me.And I'll tell you, and I'll tell you then, I dislike that group very much. No, I liked them. And smart people. But they're telling me about a hospital built in the area. You know -- you all know what I'm talking about. $1.2 billion. I said, wow. I thought I didn't hear the original, the cost over. I said, wow, that's a lot of money for a hospital. How big is it? They said, no, no, no, that's not the cost of that. That's just the cost overrun.Think of what we could do if we had real people running our government, OK. There's what --I'll tell you a little quick story. I got called before the United Nations. I heard they were building an extension to the United Nations in New York. Number of years ago. And Jeff Sessions is such an amazing man. And he's great. He was the first senator to endorse Donald Trump. First really major political guy. Very smart guy. But they have -- I built a building across the street like for $320 million. And it's a very tall building. Like around 90 stories tall. That's tall. Much taller than the United Nations. And then it was -- and I built it for I think it was $325 million. All right. Condominiums. It's called Trump World Tower. Great building. Beautiful. Really beautiful. All glass. It's beautiful.Herbert Muschamp for "The New York Times," the architecture critic, prior to passing away, they gave it a great review. So we built this building, and it's announced. And I get a call from -- I think it was the Swedish ambassador. But one of the ambassadors, very good man. And he said, Mr. Trump, I'm with the United Nations. I'm the ambassador. Again, I think it was Sweden. It was a while ago. Said, I don't understand something. We're talking about doing an expansion of the United Nations. Not a big deal. And it's going to cost $1.5 billion.I read that your building, which is three times taller or more, costs $325 million. Is that possible or is that a mistake? I said totally possible, Mr. Ambassador. They said, why -- he said to me, he was good. He was a good man.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I have to tell you that the fire marshall -- they turned away thousands of people, they turned away -- thank you very much. They turned away thousands of people -- look at the size of this place. They turned away thousands, they were giving orders that no more than a thousand people.Now, Hillary Clinton, I have a picture here which is pretty sad.She had, she had, last week or a couple of days ago, look at -- totally empty.But is the mayor a Democrat? Is there a Democrat over here? That's what I heard. He ought to be ashamed of himself. They turned away thousands of people, but that makes it better for you, right?It's very sad. You know. It shouldn't be so much about politics, folks. We're gonna do a town hall so we're gonna be talking about questions and this and that. I'll say a few words. But outside, I met two gentlemen from Piketon who really were misrepresented very badly, very badly, by President Obama and they're gonna come up. Come up fellas. I just met them.Because we're gonna bring back our jobs, we're not gonna let our jobs go to Mexico and all these other countries, we're gonna renegotiate the horrible NAFTA deal which is maybe the worst deal every made from an economic development standpoint -- I'm not just talking in this country I'm talking about in the world -- we're gonna bring back our jobs. And we're also gonna stop radical Islamic terrorism. We're not letting the people come in. We're not letting them come in. And they can play all the games they want.But we're not -- you know Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase from Syria coming into this country over Obama. And you'd actually say what is she doing? So here's a letter from President Obama to these two gentlemen that have worked so hard and are having a hard time, and maybe in just a little while you could just say exactly what's going on.Thank you both very much.Same old stuff, politicians. All talk, no action, won't happen. And you know Hillary will be nothing more than four more years of Obama. Four more years of ISIS. Four more years of a military that's being depleted and not taking care of our vets. She said a few months ago our vets are being taken care of just fine. She said, "No, no, it's over-exaggerated, I know the vets. I think I have tremendous support with the vets." Raised a lot of money and gave a lot of money to the vets.I will tell you something. The vets are not being taken care of well at all. The suicide rate is hard to believe, even, when you hear the numbers and you know the numbers I'm talking about. They wait in line for two, three, four, five days -- think of it, going to a doctor and waiting for five days -- longer than that -- and people are dying waiting in line. SO we're gonna take care of our vets.We're going to again secure, and very important, we're gonna secure our borders. We're gonna secure our borders.We're gonna build the wall. We're gonna build the wall and Mexico's gonna pay for the wall. And the reason -- some of the politicians have said, you know they're not going to pass it. No, no, you don't understand. They're going to pay. They are making so much money, Mexico -- they're taking our business -- a friend of mine builds plants, that's what he does, plants. If he had to build an apartment, he wouldn't know where to begin, but he builds massive plants, among the biggest in the world.And I said to him recently, how are you doing? He said, unbelievable. Now he's from this country, and he'd like to do well in this country. But I said, how are you doing? He said, unbelievable. I said, that's good. So you're doing a lot of work in the United States? Not so much. I said, well how are you doing unbelievably? You wouldn't believe what's happening in Mexico. It's the eighth wonder of the world, that's what he told me.I said, what does that mean? He said, they're building among the biggest plants we've ever built. It's unbelievable. Companies are moving out of the United States -- Columbus, by the way -- they're moving out of the United States, they're moving out of Ohio, I asked him, they're moving out of Michigan, big league the cars -- he builds car plants. He builds computer plants. Builds them all. And they're moving out of the United States. So I said, how's the United States doing? He says, not so good. He said, but Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world.That's going to end, folks. We want Mexico to do fine, but we're not going to let them take our jobs anymore. We're not going to let it happen. You look at this area, I mean, I have statisticians, right -- good statisticians -- they love to do this. I can't imagine doing it and being too much fun. To me, it would be a little bit boring to do. But I'll tell you, the numbers are horrendous.First of all, I don't know if you just saw the number for growth of our country. Did you see that? Growth -- 1.2 percent. 1.2 percent! We're sinking. We're sinking. That's one of the lowest numbers ever. I think it's the lowest number ever in terms of trying to make a comeback. 1.2 percent. But in Columbus -- and I looked at this, and this is bad, this is bad -- Ohio has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. Bill Clinton signed it. And Hillary Clinton wants it.Think of that. Hillary Clinton's disastrous trade policies are responsible for the manufacturing job losses in Ohio and throughout the other states of this country.I've got a machine. And I'll tell you, the problem with a machine, it totally controls the press. You look at CNN, it's called the Clinton news network. All day long, Trump, Trump -- all day long, CNN, Trump, Trump, such a bad guy. I just want to bring back your jobs. I want to bring back your safety. Because we're not safe. 550 percent more people coming in from Syria and other territories, and we have no idea who they are. And I've gone to the best law enforcement officials and they said there's no way of you telling, they have all sorts of false things.You know, they stole our passport machine, you saw that. They make passports better than we do, OK. They have -- think of it, 550 percent more than -- Obama, he's letting in thousands and thousands of people. The people in Ohio, the people in the rust belt -- and they call it the rust belt for a reason, because everything's rusting and rotting. You lost your jobs. They're moving to Mexico. Remember my friend with the plant.When you're going to vote, remember this, November 8 -- when you go to vote, remember my friend with the plant, where he says it's the eighth wonder of the world. And we're going to renegotiate -- if you want, unless you don't want to do this. We're going to renegotiate NAFTA, and it was very funny.The other day, I saw Hillary Clinton saying -- first time ever -- we are going to start renegotiating our trade deals. That's been me for years. That's been me. Number one, she won't do a good job of it, for a lot of reasons, but one of them is that she's totally controlled by the special interests.And I'll give you an example. I just saw this number. Just read it coming up here. Donald Trump has raised $19,000 from hedge funds. Now I don't know how it got in there. I don't even want it. I'll send it back. Hillary Clinton, from hedge funds, has raised $48.5 million. Think about it. $48.5 million. I hope you don't own -- I have a friend, he's very wealthy. He doesn't own a hedge fund. But raised 48.5 million -- I have 19,000. I think I'll send the 19,000 back. Probably a nice person, but think of it.But here's really what's important to me. So I funded, as you know, my primary. People were very happy. I'm continuing to fund my general election. But we're also taking small donations, which in the primary wasn't a big factor because we didn't really -- we sold hats and things, little things, it was cute and people like it and people put in small money. But I funded it, and I guess I'm into everything for 60 million or over 60 million or soon will be over 60 million, but I'm continuing to fund my campaign.But we're also raising money from people where they send in a check, small donors, right. You've sent in a check? Who sent in a check? Wow. Whoa. That's fantastic. So, we only started last month, and she's going to have like a fortune. She's going to have like a billion, billion and a half, because she's going to be totally controlled. Like we talk about uranium, the two gentlemen, great people -- well, she had a lot to do with Russian uranium. You saw that deal. And got paid a fortune for allowing Russia to come in -- talk about uranium, that's big stuff, OK. Got paid a fortune. And we'll be talking about that during the campaign, don't worry about it.But -- so we started, really, around the middle of June, and we had a tremendous June, and they were saying, Donald Trump didn't raise any money. Well, we didn't start. We started in the middle of June, and we raised, I think it as $27 million from the small donors. That was around 60 some odd dollars apiece. And we also raised, from other people, about -- I don't know, the total was about $51 million, OK. That was in June. We hardly -- that was like for half a month. Because people want to see something happen with our country.But here's what's really good news. This is just going to be reported, I think, today or tomorrow. We have raised, with the small donor, $35.8 million. Think of that. I believe it's 517,000 donors. Think of that. That's in a month. So we raised 35.8 million, even a little more than that, and the average price of the donation was $69. How incredible is that, right?And it's not even to me the money. It's to me the concept -- in all fairness, Bernie Sanders was doing that, you know? Because there was some movement, now, it was a movement on the other side of the plate.But you know what? He had one thing in common with me. He knew that the trade deals are destroying our country. The difference is he couldn't do anything about the trade deals.I'll take those trade deals and make them so good that's what I do. I love taking bad deals and making them good, that's what I do. I take bad deals and make them good; NAFTA's a bad, bad, bad deal. And I'm gonna make it good.But think of that. So we raised $35.8 million, an excess of that in a month. And then in addition we raised money that hasn't been tabulated yet from people that are putting up larger numbers.But that's going to the Republican National -- largely -- to the Republican National Committee and -- I'm -- and I'm putting up money to run my campaign, OK? So when you see -- when you see that Clinton, Crooked Hillary, crooked -- she's crooked as a three dollar bill, let me tell ya. She is crooked.When you see Crooked Hillary with $48.5 million from hedge funds and Trump at $19,000, when they call me because they wanna stop a company from doing something or when they call me because they want one of your companies to get the green light to move into Mexico and fire everybody, believe me I'm gonna take care of these -- I'm gonna do what's right for you.She's gonna do right for her donors. I'm gonna do right for you so it's gonna be a big difference.It's gonna be a big difference. So -- so I'll just tell you, we're battling a lot of things. But we're battling the press because the press is very dishonest, OK? The press is very dishonest. So -- so as an example, as an example I gave a very good answer over the weekend to one of the shows on Russia going into the Ukraine.I said very simply they're not gonna do it on my watch, essentially. I said Russia will not go into the Ukraine, now I said that. And the next day, the story comes out and we really let it roll a little bit.Actually, I think it was USA Today. A couple of them covered it accurately, what I said. But a couple of papers said Donald Trump doesn't realize that the Crimea was already taken.I know it exact -- two years ago, approximately OK? Approximately. It was taken during Obama's watch. So when I said believe me, Russia's not going into Ukraine, all right? They're not going into Ukraine.The person said but they're already in Ukraine. I said yeah well, that was two years ago, that's -- that's -- I mean you wanna go back? You wanna have World War III to get it back?That was during Obama's watch. So during Obama's watch -- you know all the tough guys statements, right? So he talks about Donald Trump is not strong on Russia.First of all, I have to say this. Wouldn't it be great if we actually got along with Russia? Am I wrong in saying that? Wouldn't it be great?OK? You know Russia, like us, has nuclear weapons folks. It would be really nice if we got along with Russia and others that we don't get along with right now and wouldn't it be nice if we teamed up with Russia and others, including surrounding states and maybe NATO and we knocked the hell out of ISIS and got rid of these people?Wouldn't that be nice? Right?But -- but even beyond that, even beyond that Putin said some very good things about me, people say, "Oh, Trump's going to be weak with Putin, " because Putin is saying nice things about me. OK, all right. And I said he's a strong guy. They immediately say, "Oh, Trump likes " -- but, look, I don't like or dislike. I just say it this way. Wouldn't it be great if the United States and Russia got along, combined, knocked out ISIS, maybe did other positive things?You know, we forced them through stupidity into an alliance with China. You know why? Because of oil. Because China needs oil. We were driving both crazy. They formed -- and from the time I was young guy, I've always learned, don't ever let China and Russia get together -- we forced them together.Obama forced them together. Because you didn't get along with either and they eventually -- China came in and said, "let's make a deal on oil." They're together. In fact, they're doing naval exercises together someplace. And you look at China, they're building one of the largest military installations in the world right smack in the middle of the South China Sea.And then they talk about Donald Trump and Russia, or Donald Trump, but -- believe me, folks, somebody can say nice things about me -- he did call me a genius but these are minor details -- somebody can say nice things about me -- it has -- it makes no difference. It makes no difference. All right?I have been dealing a long time. A lot of times I will make much better deals with people that say terrible things about me. I don't care what they say about me; I want the deal. You know, on trade, one of the people that's standing back there -- one of the dishonest media -- "well, what's your definition of trade?"I said, "well, your fair trade -- you have all sorts -- you have so many different types of trade." But here is my definition of trade. Because right now we are being ripped off -- $500 billion trade deficit with China -- $500 billion. And they give us product, we let them in, no tax, no nothing. You want to try and make a deal with China? You can't get your product in, and if you do you pay tax, and if you do you also have to build plants over there.And they don't even want that; they don't want you in. They're one-sided deals. So when they said, "what's your trade deal?" I said very simply, "I want to make great deals for the United States." We don't have to name it. You have fair trade. You have all sorts of names. I learned every single one of them in college.Now we have added a couple. Here is the problem. We have stupid people doing our negotiating. We have stupid people doing our negotiating. I'll give you an example. If a company in Ohio said they're going to leave, we're going to fire -- which as you know, many companies are leaving -- and by the way, as you are sitting here right now -- right now, we have companies negotiating with Mexico and other places to close up in Ohio and to move into Mexico or other places.OK? As you're sitting here right now. Some of you people think you have good jobs. Guess what? Carrier thought they had good jobs, Ford thought they had good jobs; lots of -- hundreds and hundreds -- thousands of companies have left -- thousands. Millions of jobs. And Hillary Clinton is weak and she is ineffective and there is no way you can allow four more years of this stuff to go on. There's just no way in my opinion. But let's say -- and by the way, your steel mills in Ohio where China is dumping steel to put you guys out of business -- they're dumping -- you know that? Who's in steel over here? Am I right? They're dumping steel to put the steelworkers out of business. And Hillary said the miners -- any miners in here? Miners? I love the miners. Oh, West Virginia was good to me, I'll tell you.And Ohio was good to me. A lot of miners in Ohio. Miner.But Hillary Clinton said, "We're going to put the miners and the mines out of business." Now, she said that before probably an environmental group or something, but then she tried to back up.But they remembered she said it and she got clobbered in West Virginia. Smart people. She got clobbered in West Virginia. So, we're going to have clean coal, and we're going to have steel, and we're going to make our products again, and we're going to have the people in Columbus and all of Ohio and all of Michigan and all of these other states -- you know, I did great in Michigan. I did great in Ohio, too. Unfortunately I didn't have a long time to campaign. If I would have spent two more days here, I would have won Ohio too, because I won practically everything else.We got almost 14 million votes. Think of that. More than anybody in the history of Republican primaries. That includes some great people like Ronald Reagan, Dwight D. Eisenhower, who won the Second World War, right, he did win the Second World War. Got elected because he won the Second World War. I got more votes than him, that's good, right?And remember this, I had 17 people. I wasn't running against two people. I had 17 people. Hillary Clinton, I got a similar number to Hillary Clinton, and she had Bernie, and she had a hard time putting Bernie away. And Bernie -- poor Bernie. He looked so upset. You know what, he made a mistake. He shouldn't have made a deal. Sometimes -- he lost, he lost. First of all, it was rigged, and I'm afraid the election is going to be rigged, I have to be honest. Because I think my side was rigged -- if I didn't win by massive landslides -- I mean, think of what we won in New York and Indiana, California, 78 percent. That's with other people in the race.But think of it. I hear more and more that the election on November 8 -- can you believe, we're almost there. This started on June 16 of last year and I said, wow, let's go do it. Takes guts to do this, believe me. And everybody said -- no, it takes guts. I could be having a very nice life right now. I don't have to be with you people, ranting and raving. Could have a very nice life.But it takes guts. And everybody said, this is the greatest field. I remember Charles Krauthammer saying, this is the greatest field ever assembled in the history of Republican politics, or something to that effect. This is before I got in. And I said to my wife, you know, it's a great field. Charles Krauthammer and others are saying this is the greatest field ever assembled. It's also the largest field ever assembled. So I have the greatest, largest field ever assembled. And then one day, I just, I had it. I watched the Iran deal, this horrible deal be done, where we give back $150 billion and they're making nuclear weapons, and we've made a power out of Iran. They were struggling for their life and we've made a power out of Iran. In fact, they were in serious trouble, when they were all marching in the streets, it was over, and Obama came to their rescue, if you remember that. First term.That was a bad day. That was going to be over for them, and we came to their rescue. Now we've made them into a power, OK. A big power. But I saw the Iran deal and I saw the stupidity on trade, where companies are leaving -- one of them was, Carrier left Indiana. 1,400 people fired, moving to Indiana, they're going to make their plant, they're going to build it, they're going to take their air conditioners, make them, sell them right back into Indiana and other places, no tax, no nothing. With me, they're going to be taxed 35 percent and you know what? They're never going to move. They're never moving, folks. They're never moving.Did you ever see -- because I love this stuff. You know, people say, not a politician. Remember when they said a certain person? Well, he got clobbered. Raised tremendous amounts of money, and everybody thought he'd do really well. But they say -- but he hasn't been an active politician for eight years. I've never been a politician, and we've won in a landslide. So -- but I don't get credit for that. They don't give me credit. What are you going to do?I was joking -- I was joking, because some people thought I was a little bit too tough -- and I have been -- certain people that I ran against in the Republican primaries have never come back. And they probably won't. And that's OK. I do better when they don't come back. I do better if I have them as my opponent as opposed to my ally. No, no, but we have a few. You know their names. We have a few. They haven't come back. They haven't come back.I'll tell you, I was honored at the convention for two reasons. Number one, I had 35 million people watching. Hillary had what, 28 million people, this final speech, so we had more people watching. The press built up that convention like it was the greatest Democrat Convention -- I actually thought -- I liked the Republican Convention.I would rather watch -- I would rather watch Ivanka Trump than any of their celebrities, I can tell you. I would rather watch Don and Eric and Tiffany and Melania did a great job. I would rather watch them than any of their celebrities. You know, they all said, well Donald Trump had his kids -- isn't that nice if you have kids that are capable enough to go up and do it? You know why people haven't had their kids go up? Because their kids can't do it. And I can understand that. That's a hard thing to do. My kids went up, they were brave, they were strong.Tiffany, we pushed her out on the stage, go. She never did it before. Tiffany said, this is really scary, and we just said, just go do it, and she did beautifully. She never spoke to anybody -- it's true. The biggest group she's ever spoken to is like 18 people in a class, where she was a very good student, I have to say. But they did a great job. But I actually liked the Republican National Convention better -- I'll tell you what. We had a much better looking stage, number one, which is important. We won for stage.But we got a very unfair press. When Bernie Sanders had his people leaving the room, nobody covered that. If I would have had people leave the room, it would have been a national scandal. When a certain man got up -- and I knew his speech. I said, look, let him speak, what difference does it make? And -- he says -- a certain man got up and he spoke, and everybody in the room booed the hell out of him. In fact, I saved his life when I walked back into the room. But everybody in the room -- and his numbers went down like from 68 to 20- something. That's called unity, folks. That's unity. That's a good thing, not a bad thing. That is unity.And -- but the problem we have -- the biggest problem we have, I think, is the press. The New York Times is totally dishonest. Totally dishonest. The Washington Post  gotten a little bit better lately. I took away their press credentials. I should do it with The Times, but -- the problem is, you get more publicity from doing -- just let them rot. But The New York Times is really, really dishonest, and it's failing. I don't think they'll be in business more than two or three years. Look at their numbers. They're failing. But they do a number that's unbelievable. Every story is bad. In fact, sometimes I'll say, oh, great. This was so good, I'm going to have a great story tomorrow in The New York Times. You know, they'll call. Always turned out to be a disaster. They -- it's so dishonest.And yet Hillary. Hillary. Crooked Hillary they write beautifully about. Right? Washington Post, similar. It was really bad, now it's gotten a little bit better I must tell you. Washington Post got a little bit better. CNN is so dishonest. Clinton News Network, so dishonest. Unbelievable. Do you know what they call it? It may be the Clinton News Network, but nobody wants to watch Hillary. All day long, it's Trump. All day, all the time. That's what it is.But it's so much inaccurate information. And by the way I think their ratings are going to go down really sharply now. They've been asking me to go on for months. I won't do their shows. And the reason I won't is because it's so dishonest that until they straighten up I'm not doing their shows. And when people finally realize that I'm not doing their shows they stop watching. That's what happens.And I must say, I don't say this for a reason, and they're tough. They're very tough on me. But Fox has at least been fair. They've been fair. Fox has been fair. So at some point, at some point we're just gonna keep barreling through. People asked me to run. People asked me to run. At wheel Donald Trump Letters and everything. You know we have 22.5 million people between Twitter and -- can you believe it? -- you know I have a lot of people, they say, "Don't use Twitter anymore." I say "Why? I get 22 million people between that and Facebook and Instagram. I'm a very modern person in a way, right?"You know who says don't use Twitter? Your enemies. Why wouldn't I use it? Why wouldn't I -- if I have all these millions of people, and it's a great way to get a message out. So when they write falsely, or say something totally false on the Today Show, or Good Morning America, I've put out a tweet. And you'll see all over television -- we have breaking news. And I may be tweeting from bed. OK? It's true. It's instantaneous. If I put out a beautiful, long, perfectly scripted press release like I did yesterday nobody puts it out. If I put out a 140-character tweet they go crazy. "We have breaking news." They break into every story. So you got to use it.Well, here's a story. I love Ohio. I've been here, I work here. I don't know if you know -- I worked in Cincinnati for a period of time. I had great success. It was one of my first jobs. I did it with my father. It was called Swifton Village. And we bought something that was a disaster. It was empty, it had 1,154 units. It was a total disaster. And we bought it from HUD. And turned it around. I was here, I did a great job, it gave me great confidence because it's good to head with a good job, and then we sold it, at a tremendous profit, and we went on to the next.And I loved Cincinnati. And interestingly, after I sold it, the job went very bad. The job went very bad. I mean -- my timing was very good. I listened to people but I really listened to myself and the timing was beautiful. WE had it for a number of years but we sold it. And the day I sold it, to the day we closed contract, was bought by a REIT. One of the early REITs. It lost a lot of its occupants. That's how the timing was. It was perfect timing.I just think of Cincinnati, the Queen City, I love Cincinnati. I love Kentucky. I go to Kentucky for fun. I won't tell you what -- can you imagine that story if they find out about that? But I love Kentucky. And Kentucky likes me. Boy did I do well in Kentucky. Kentucky. We love Kentucky. And we're gonna take care of the miners in Kentucky. Believe me. We're going to take care of the miners in Kentucky.But I had a great time in Cincinnati and I had a great time in Ohio. The people of Ohio are special people. And they're smart people. And they know what is happening to them, they know great things are gonna happen. We are gonna turn this state into a manufacturing behemoth. We're gonna bring your jobs back. We're gonna bring your companies back. We're gonna bring companies that left, are gonna come back because it will no longer be economic for them to continue where they are. We're gonna bring companies back. We're gonna bring companies back.You know I tell this one story, you've heard about, with Carrier in Indiana. Which I won in a landslide, that was supposed to be the firewall, remember that? Indiana will be his firewall. They said, New York, we've expect him to win Pennsylvania, we expect him to win. Won Maryland, Rhode Island, Delaware -- we won them all. We expect him. But Indiana is going to be the firewall. Right?And then Bobby Knight called, and Bobby Knight -- how about Bobby Knight? We love Bobby Knight, right? Winner. He's a winner. Bobby Knight. And he came out -- 900 games, three national championships, last undefeated college team, won the Olympics, won the Pan Am Games. Other than that, eh, he's a good coach. Right? We love Bobby Knight. And what a job. And what a tough cookie. And he said to me, "I hope you're gonna run for president." This is before I knew him. He called me. "You should run for president. You'll be great."I said, "Bobby I haven't decided." This was before June 16th, a few months. "I haven't decided." He said, "Just run." And then when I ran I called him and he said, "I've been waiting for you to call." And we went to Indiana and it was incredible. But the thing that happened, that I've been talking about for a year, and it happened to be in Indiana, was when Carrier Air Conditioner fired 1,400 people. Right? They fired 1,400 people like dogs. Like dogs they fired them. It's on tape. Had I not seen it on tape, on television, it wouldn't have had the impact that it had. These are people who had worked there, some of them for more than 30 years. And they would follow me around all over Indiana, and I'd have the people from Carrier.So let me just tell you, if I were negotiating and let's say I heard they were gonna close, and if I said, "Folks. Want to meet with you. Where's your president?" They send their president along. Said, "Let me tell you. You're leaving 1,400 great people. Now if you want to stay within the United States that's a different deal. The states will compete against themselves. Right? But you want to move to Mexico? You want to build a plant? I wish you luck. But if you do that you're going to pay this 35 percent tax."Here's what's gonna happen, folks. Folks. Here's what's gonna happen. So simple. They're not gonna leave. They're not gonna leave. Because it doesn't work economically for them to leave. So now they're not gonna leave. And if they do leave that's OK too because we're gonna make a fortune. OK? We're gonna make a fortune. Now I've been watching this country for seven or eight or nine years, even before Obama, working on plans to stop people and companies from leaving the United States. I've seen low-interest loans, I've seen zero-interest loans -- I've seen it all. I've seen it all. I've seen every plan you can imagine. I've seen where they give them money, they do everything. A lot of these companies don't need money, they just want to make more.But you know what? My plan, which is so simple -- we don't need anything. Nice and simple. And when I say that to the company -- if you're running a company, you in the blue, and you're running a company and I say to you, if you leave Ohio, I wish you a lot of luck, enjoy the warm climate in Mexico. But if you leave Ohio, you're not going to make your product and sell it back into Ohio where you have all these unemployed people. What's going to happen is you're going to have a tax to pay to get the product back in. Now, when you hear that, you're not going to be very fast to leave. You're not going to actually leave, OK.Almost 100 percent, you're not going to leave. It's just not going to work. Because the economics don't work anymore. Now, when my friend talks about, it's the eighth wonder of the world, Mexico, I think that's great. I respect Mexico. I love the Mexican people. I have thousands of Mexican people that have worked for me over the years. Thousands and thousands, they're great. But their leaders are too smart for our leaders, OK, and they're stripping our country, and they're stripping Ohio.So Hillary Clinton doesn't talk this way. Hillary gets up and she reads her teleprompter, we are going to build new roads. We are going to build new schools. We are going to build -- we are going to build.And just like the two gentlemen that came up here, you'll be let down 100 percent. But me, this is my thing. I've been talking about this for years. You know, somebody said, it's amazing, Trump's been talking about this for 20 years. It used to be Japan. Remember when I talked about Japan? Now it's China, but it's still Japan. Japan made a fortune devaluing their currency. China makes a fortune with currency manipulation. It's cheating. It's cheating. And when I sit down and say, listen, you've got to stop this, you're killing us, you've got $500 billion trade deficits for us, you got to stop it -- we have rebuilt China.And when I tell them this, and when I say, listen, you got to do it, you got to do it -- see, we have all the power, but nobody knows it. Like, when we catch them cheating, ten percent tax right across the board. Every good coming in from China, right. Now, here's what's going to happen -- number one, they're going to stop cheating. And if they don't, we collect ten percent, we make a fortune. But they're going to stop cheating.There's nobody that tells them this. When they come over, President Obama, they put a tent on the White House lawn, right, and they give them a steak dinner like you've never seen before. Although I would have a ballroom. I offered to build a ballroom, you know -- they turned it down. I was going to put up $100 million to build a ballroom at the White House, because having a tent is not that good. It's not even that safe, a canvas tent. And they never even got back to me. That's the way it is.If I were president, somebody offered that, I'd say, give me the top five American architects in the United States. Get them over here. All of you, come up with a ballroom that holds 1,000 people, 1,000 people, and they'll come up, and one of them will be beautiful, and we'll build it. I'll take the guy's money. Believe me, I promise, somebody wants to build a ballroom at the White House. They turned me down. No interest. No interest, because that's the way the country is. So, I'm only saying to the people of Ohio, to the people of Columbus, I want to tell you, we're going to turn this country around and we're going to make it so strong and so great, and we're going to run it smart. We're not going to run it stupid like it is.You're not going to have -- when I look at your numbers, when my statistician writes all this stuff out, it's just one bad number after another. It's a terrible -- I mean, honestly, it's a terrible thing. Look, Columbus, Columbus. Ohio has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, right. Columbus has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed an agreement to put China into the World Trade Organization.Hillary rammed through the job killing trade deal with South Korea -- that's been a killer. The deal with South Korea has been a killer. I buy thousands of television sets, thousands and thousands -- nobody makes television sets. Remember, we used to have Sylvania, for those of us that are old enough, we had General Electric, we had all these companies -- we've got nobody.We don't make television sets. We don't make a lot. Soon, we won't make anything. And you can only have so many nursing homes in a factory. A lot of factories were taken, they were made into nursing homes. I think that's great. But you can only have so many of them. We need jobs.Look at this. I mean, abandon diplomatic personnel -- so many different things. Supports, I told you this -- supports at 550 percent increase, it was sort of amazing, because the press is always saying, well, you're wrong, and you exaggerated that number, no matter -- if you said, two and two are four, they will get these super liberal groups to say, well, he's not really right. It's not really four.You know, when I read off the crime statistics about the police that are being shot, like in Dallas and other places, and I read about it, and I said we had a 50 percent increase in police shootings, and they said, well, yes, but that was only for this year. But if you go over 10 years or 12 years, or if you go over 7.3 years, a little bit less -- look, folks, the country is a mess. We're going to make it strong again, we're going to make it safe again, you're going to be so proud of it. And you're going to be proud of your president, but more importantly, you're going to be proud of your country.So why don't we take a few questions, and when we're finished with the questions, let's go back to work, and those of you that don't have work, hang in there. Jobs will be back sooner than you think. OK, believe me. Yes, go ahead.Right.OK. There can't be a better question, other than on defense. Because we're going to build up our depleted military, most importantly -- defense is always number one, don't you think? But, we're going to build our depleted -- we're going to take care of our vets.OK. Obamacare. Number one, we're going to repeal it and replace it 100 percent. It is a total disaster. You saw what's happening in Texas. Blue Cross Blue Shield, working through Obamacare, 60 percent increase. Here's the thing -- nobody knows this. The numbers are so bad on Obamacare, so bad, that on November 1, they're going to be announced. Those numbers are presidential election changing numbers.Those numbers are going to be so high, beyond anything we've had, and President Obama is trying to change the date to December 1, because when people see what's going to happen to Obamacare and to your health care numbers, they're so astronomical that people will never vote for Crooked Hillary Clinton. They're never going to vote for her. So -- and you asked a very interesting question, the way you phrased it was very interesting. Because you have a lot of part- time workers now that never had a part-time job in their life. You have people in this room -- don't raise your hands, but you have people in this room that are making less money now than they made 18 years ago in real wages. Less money.And, in some cases they're making less money, and working two jobs and that's largely because of Obamacare because companies save money by breaking it up. So, they'll take full-time, beautiful employees that have worked for companies for years and they'll say I'm sorry, you're going to be a part-time employee from now on.Obamacare has been a disaster. Obamacare is so unfair, and, you know, you had a lot of people that had good plans. We have to take care of people that can't, that don't have the money to take care of themselves. You look like a rich guy, OK? At least modestly rich, I think. Could be very rich.But, we have to take care of people that can't afford it. And, I'm all for that. And, we have something coming I think that's going to be great. And, a lot of Republicans would say that's not Republican. Let me tell you, it is Republican, folks.You know, every time I've ever said it I've never had anybody other than the eggheads, you know the people that said Trump is never going to run. And, if he runs, I don't think he'll do very well. We got a six, we got a 12, we got 24, I mean, forget it.But, you know what? Other than these so called, "eggheads " we never -- and I mean this, we never had anybody in an audience when I said we're going to have a great plan. We're getting rid of the boundaries, we're going to have great private competition, and you're going to have plans now that we can't even talk about because these companies will come up with plans and it's going to be so much less expensive, and so much better.And, for the people that can't afford that, we're going to take care of them. And, I tell you what, I've never had one person -- and I have the biggest crowds of anybody, I've never had one person stand up and say that's not Republican, except for the eggheads. They say, you can't do that. We got to take care of people. We can't have people dying in the streets. We can't have our vets, as an example, dying waiting in line because they can't get to see a doctor.Simple procedures can save their lives. Simple procedures. A little incision, a small operation, a pill. A pill can save their lives and they're dying waiting for a doctor, and we're going to -- and my plan is filed. Policy. We're going to have people, they can't get in, they're going to go. They're going to see a local doctor, they're going to see a local hospital, public or private. We're going to pay for the bill.And, by the way, that's number one from the humanitarian standpoint, that's great. And, even less importantly because ultimately we got to save people, it's going to be less expensive. And, we're not going to have the problems that we have where people are committing suicide.So many people every day. Vets are committing suicide because they can't even get to see the doctor to help them. One of the big reasons of vet suicide.So, we got to take care of that, and we're going to take care of the Obama -- we're going to repeal, replace, we're going to take care of everybody, OK? Thank you, good question.OK. Yes, go ahead.Well, it's really a great question, Ryan, because the thing that maybe surprised me the most is -- to me, taxes are very important. It's all taxes. It's such a big cost, or can be a big cost.Now we have a tax bill, or we have a tax law that's very complicated, but it's a big cost. If you would have told me going around -- and I've met so many small business owners, and so many large business owners, that if they had their choice between bringing our taxes down. Now, I have the largest tax decrease of anybody that's run for office.Larry Kudlow loves it, a lot of people love it, but it's the largest tax decrease of any person running for office from the beginning, Republican or Democrat, OK? Hillary is going to have to double taxes. Is going to have to double your taxes. Hillary Clinton will double your taxes.We're bringing it down to 15 percent. We're simplifying the system. People that are making very little are going to pay nothing until they can break into the system. And, you'll save a lot of money bureaucratically that way. But, people that are making very little are going to pay nothing. Instead of sending in complicated returns, and paying nothing.But, we have a very beautiful plan, very simple, very simple, and very important.But, if you would have told me after speaking with thousands of people that regulations, if they had their choice, you can have either reduced regulation -- because people can't open businesses. They can't run their businesses.You can either have lower taxes or reduced regulation, people would take the regulation. That surprised me. That's how bad regulations are. You're looking at the energy business. The energy businesses is being put out of business. It's being put out of business.Many small business owners have come up to me saying, "Mr. Trump, I'm going to lose my business because the regulations."So, we're going to take care. We're going to cut down the regulations. I would be between 85 and 90 percent. OK? Now, some are necessary, I know, for safety, but some are necessary. But, I'll bet we can cut every year. Every year, it must be a cottage industry. They have people that just write regulations all day long.We're going to cut down regulations between 85 and 90 percent. We're going to take care of the environment. We're going to take care of safety, but we're going to let it be that we're going to be a growing, growing. When you look at 1.2 percent, that set a record. That means we're drowning. That means we're going in the opposite direction. So, we're going to take care of regulations, we're going to have very, very, big cuts in regulations.OK, another question? Who's got the mike? Go ahead, yes.Hi.Good. Good place.Heroin.Yeah, I will cut off the source.Build the wall. I will cut off the source.Good question. Very well asked. Thank you very much.Heroin. So, my first victory as a candidate, number one, was New Hampshire, which is a beautiful, beautiful place. Beautiful trees, beautiful meadows, beautiful little roads. And I got to know the people of New Hampshire very well, and I did unbelievable. We won in a landslide in New Hampshire. That was at the beginning when we had all these people competing.It's a great state, and they have unbelievable people, and I got to know the people. And, I'd go into meetings, and I'd say, "So, what's your biggest problem?"And they would always say, "Heroin. Heroin."I said, "What do you mean, heroin?"They'd say, "Heroin."I'd say, "This doesn't look like it's a heroin like problem type place."They say, "Mr. Trump, it is flowing across our southern border. It's cheaper than candy. Our kids are being poisoned. They're being addicted, not only kids but kids. They're being addicted."They're dying and for some reason New Hampshire more than any other place talks about it -- that's why I'm so glad you asked that question. But -- heroin. So I said, "So where do you think it comes -- what's the source?" It's the southern border. It comes through the southern border. I said, "Let me tell you. If I win, I'm going to stop it. I'm gonna stop it."Now we had 16, 500 Border Patrol agents who are unbelievable people. Who if they didn't endorse me would have a much easier job, because all they have to do is stand there and people walk right through them. Right? With me they're gonna stop people from coming into our country. OK? They're gonna stop them. And they're not gonna have to work that hard because of the wall. I asked them, "How important is the wall?" They said, "Very important, very important."New Hampshire told me about heroin. And I said "Wow." And I said, "If I win, I'm gonna stop heroin from coming into this country and there are going to be big repercussions and I'm gonna get the government of Mexico and other governments to stop it or they've got problems." With all the money we give them, they'd better take better care. They're not taking care of us. They're not taking care of us.You know I've talked about trade deficits. We have a massive trade deficit with Mexico. That doesn't include the drugs that are coming across. We get the drugs, they get the money. Like this. Big vans coming across. Drugs coming in, money going out. Those days are over, folks. Those days are over.So I won New Hampshire. I then went down to all different places. We did great in Massachusetts, home of Tom Brady. We love Tom Brady. But we did great in Massachusetts, we did great -- sort of everywhere. But I see what a huge problem -- it's not just in New Hampshire. It's all over the place. Heroin is all over the place. Mothers and fathers are losing their children. And heroin is a very addictive thing. It's very hard to get out of that addiction, of heroin. It's very, very hard.And that's the other thing we're gonna do. We're gonna take all of these kids and people, not just kids, that are totally addicted and they can't break it, we're gonna work with them, we're gonna spend the money, we're gonna get that habit broken. But we're not gonna let this crap come into our country and poison our youth and poison our people and it comes in mostly from the southern border. And Hillary Clinton isn't gonna do that. Number one, she's not strong enough to do it. She wouldn't have a clue.So ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. November 8th. You've got to go and vote. I'll be back. I'll be back so much you'll be sick of me. But November 8th, you have to go and vote. We've got to win this election. This is a big one. Ohio is a very important state, we have to go, we have to win this election.I love you all. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.Thank you. So we have tremendous crowds of people outside.Would anybody like to give up your seat?So I think what we're going to have to do is a little different. You know we have been so crowded, there's something going on big, even bigger than before because every place we go we have these massive crowds.Yesterday, we were in Ohio, we were in Pennsylvania and Harrisburg and we had crowds that were so enormous, so much bigger than the venue. So we're gonna have to start using the basketball arenas, don't you agree?You know, we have -- outside, we have like thousands of people. They're going crazy because they can't get in. So bear with us but I did get to wave to them OK? So it was good. But these are great people.You know. Something very nice just happened to me. A man came up to me and he handed me his purple heart.Now, I said to him now, is that like the real one or is that a copy?And he said that's my real purple heart, I have such confidence in you. And I said man, that's like -- that's like big stuff. I always wanted to get the Purple Heart. This was much easier.But I tell you, it was such an honor and maybe I can bring him up on the stage Lieutenant Colonel Louis Dorfman, I just have to.So I said Lieutenant Colonel would you like to say something? He goes no, sir. I'd like you to just keep saying what you've been saying. It's amazing.What an honor, what an honor. That was great. So thank you all for being here. We're gonna have a little fun this morning and we're going to be back in Virginia a lot. We have to win Virginia.And if we could do to the United States what I did to that, boy would we have a country. There'd be nothing like it anywhere, ever, in history. But you know, I took over a club what, 10 years ago?And it was on the Potomac River and it's right next door. And in fact, I wish we did this out at the golf club, to be honest with you. Right on the Potomac. Maybe we'll do that, the next one let's do it on the Potomac, I don't know, do it, right? Right?We'll do it outside, on the Potomac, by the American flag. You know, I have tremendous acreage there, we have like almost 800 acres and it's got two clubs, two courses.We have the PGA coming next year for a big, big, big tournament and it's the best there is in the tri-state. It's one of the best golf courses in the country and it's been a tremendous success. Well, I took it over, it was great acreage but it was not so great, right? And we blew it up and built new and it was -- it's been a fantastic success and it's in Loudon County. And therefore I can't imagine that the people of Loudon are going to be voting for Crooked Hillary Clinton. She doesn't do anything, because -- I've --Yeah --So did you see over the weekend Fox, Chris Wallace, where she lied, where she said the FBI Director said like everything was just perfect, it wasn't exactly -- I mean she lied, she pure and simple -- she only knows to lie. She really does, only knows to lie. But she lied, and it's a big story. It's become a big story and that's amazing.It's amazing that they covered because the press is so totally dishonest, OK? So totally dishonest. And there is nothing like it, I've never seen dishonesty like that. And they're pushing her like crazy because it's establishment stuff and we have to make change. You know she's now calling herself an agent of change. She's been doing this for 30 years.You know numbers just came out for her where she raised like $50 or $60 million and 20 people gave it. I think it was -- let's see 20 people gave her $60 million in her fund. $60 million from 20 people. I want to get a list of those 20 people. Oh those 20 people, I want to find out who they are, I want to find out how many I know.I want to find out -- I want to find out how many I know. But I'll tell you what, 20 people gave her $60 million. And that's what I've been saying folks. Look I know the game better than anybody and the game is played that way. They own her. They own her.We're going to have close to 60,000 people, and it's going to be, think of it, it averages $61 approximately. I guess it's going to be filed later or tomorrow or something, but it averages $61 each.-- a lot. I think I'm into this for over $60 million -- over $60 -- $60 million, if you don't vote for me, look at the money -- I'll probably be in for $100 by the time I finish. Think of it $100 million cash --OK good, thank you. I'll be in for over 100, and think of it, no tax deduction. See, everything I do, I think tax. After tax, before tax, but no deductions. But I'll be in for over $100 million when it's all finished, or thereabouts. And it's a lot of money, that's a lot of money, and nobody else does that.Other rich people don't do that either. Not that many rich people run because they're told if you're rich and if you're successful you can't run for political office because they'll kill you. And I said I agree, I do agree. I think I'm a testament to either never do it or do it. I will say this -- I will say this, it's been unbelievable. It's been -- the journey from June 16, coming down on the escalators, it's been an unbelievable event. I came down with Melania on that escalator and I want to tell you...Everybody loves Melania.They love Melania. She's a good person, I'll tell you that. She's smart and I thought she gave an unbelievable speech, unbelievable presentation. Unbelievable.And Ivanka did the introduction, unbelievable job.And Tiffany and Don and who do we have here today? We have Eric.Eric, where's Eric? Eric come here.Eric Trump, everybody.He's a good guy. He's done a good job.He's in there pitching and I thought the Republican National Convention was better than the other one, OK?I think my kids were great, I thought everybody did great. I actually thought it was better and we had more people watching the final night because that was the speech, that means a lot, by millions, but I will tell you, I will tell you, yes. Friend or foe? Probably friend.Thank you. All right. Your 15 seconds of fame. Well now that Bernie's out, we don't have the -- doesn't happen anymore, it's like amazing, it's -- you know the safest place to be anywhere, is at a Trump rally, that's true.Safest place to be. I mean I'll just tell you something, you don't even know you're doing it but here we are. We have chairs, right? Everybody's standing.Everybody's standing because we have -- it's excitement. There's like an excitement in the air. You have seats and everybody stands. If you want, you can sit down.But everybody said -- they don't want to sit down -- but we have such fun considering we have a very bad subject you know the country is in trouble.But were going to make it good you know a lot of people thought my speech was dark. The -- the haters -- no only the haters we got great marks -- but the haters said well he did a good job, his delivery, everything was good but it was dark. And I said, it wasn't dark, I talk about radical Islamic terrorism.I talk about...I talk about drugs pouring across the border, I talk people coming in that aren't supposed to be here, I talk about crime, I talk about our police being shot, we love our police and we have to protect our police.I talk about our veterans because our veterans are being treated horribly.When you hear twenty-two suicides a day that's inconceivable, twenty-two suicides a day. Our veterans are being treated horribly, were going to turn that around so fast your head is going to spin.People..People waiting in line for 5, 6, 7 days, the veterans, our great people and that's why maybe the lieutenant colonel did that. I mean its such an amazing thing. I -- he showed it me and I said, here thank you very much, here's a -- no, Mr. Trump I want you to keep it. I said, "keep it?" I mean these are incredible things that happen, these are incredible people that I meet.And thinking about lieutenant colonel, thinking about our military -- our military is totally depleted, totally depleted. Our military is not being funded properly, we don't have enough money going in. We need a strong military, we need a powerful strong military.When you look at what's happening -- when you look at what's happening around the world and when you look at the hatred, think of it, we are like the whipping post for many, many countries on trade, they kill us on trade. But in every way they don't respect us, China is building this massive, massive military complex in the South China Sea. They didn't get environmental impact statements by the way, they just...They said on Monday morning were going to start building, and on Monday afternoon they started, you knows that's the way it works right? We would -- we could never do that because we would have to environmental impact statements -- would 30 years then they would reject it.We don't do things like that and you know that's fine. They're not supposed it do it -- they're not supposed to do it, they don't respect us. Now very simply, we have tremendous power with China. Some of the top people in the world representing China have called me and one of them in particular, said "You know Mr. Trump? I thought you were so wrong a year ago. I heard your very strong rhetoric on trade with China and everything with China."And you have to understand China is great as far as I'm concerned, I want to get along with China -- by the way wouldn't it be great if we got along with Russia? Wouldn't that be great?If we actually had a relationship with Russia, instead of all the fighting and money and the problems and if we could get Russia and others to partner up and go and knock the hell out of ISIS. Wouldn't that be a good thing? Wouldn't that be a good thing?These people...These people are so obsolete. You know these people, you know sometimes they'll say oh could I have a list of your -- the people that you're consulting with. I said, "Well you're not going to like it because these are people that aren't involved currently."Well why aren't they involved currently?They said because look at the world, it's a mess. I don't wanna use the people that are involved currently. Look at the world, it's a mess.Look at what happened in the Middle East. Look at what's going on with North Korea. And look at what's going on with -- we have a mess out there. We have a total mess. Because I'll give names that are better and they'll say but these people haven't been involved and I said who wants the people that are currently involved? Nothing's working out. Nothings working out.Look at Libya, look at Syria, look at the migration, look at Iraq, what a mess. Look at -- look at Afghanistan, what a mess. Look at everything. If we didn't do anything with Iraq, if we never went there, if our presidents went to the beach we'd be much better off.If they just went every single day to the beach and took it easy, let Obama go to the golf course. But -- but you know what? We'd be better off. And then the way Obama got us out of the war was a disaster.We're going to get out on a certain date. The enemies sat back and they said nobody could say that, nobody. Actually, they thought it was a form of camouflage.Actually, they didn't believe it until it happened. He actually said when they're getting out. But they laid back and then after we left you -- you see what's happening.So look, we have people that don't know what they're doing. Hillary Clinton will be worse. She'll be worse. OK? Hillary Clinton will be worse.She has bad relationships with people like Putin. I'll give you an example. She has terrible relationships with Putin. This is a nuclear country we're talking about. Russia, strong nuclear country.And so are we. But their stuff is newer. Their stuff is newer. So she's looking at -- they have more -- I don't even want to say it -- they have a lot more, OK? So you know, she wants to play the tough one. She's not tough. She's not tough.I know tough people, she's not tough. I mean she's -- she's just -- she's doing the handlers, they push her from place to place that's all it is. You saw her speech the other night.I mean they talk about presidential, do you think she looks presidential? I don't think so.I don't think so. So -- so you know, she wants to play the role of the tough guy against Putin and Russia and she wants to play not tough, not tough. She should be tough on trade, OK?Because right now we are being ripped off on trade like nobody has ever ripped us off in history. You look at our trade deficits with China. Hundreds, I mean just take a look -- the numbers, five -- think of this.Five hundred and five billion dollars? Look at our trade deficits total, more than $800 billion trade deficits coming out of this area, by the way. Coming out of the state of VA and every place else.I mean I've gone through -- I won so many states. And we won in landslides or I wouldn't be here. Look, if I didn't win, this system was not set up for somebody like me to come in and exert brains and common sense, OK? It wasn't set up for that. It's set up for politicians.And if I didn't win in massive landslides, I mean I won by a landslide. Got 14 million almost 14 million votes. That's more than anybody has ever gotten in the history of the Republican Party.And remember...And that's with 17 people. People keep forgetting, that's with 17 people and yet we had -- you know when Ronald Reagan who we loved. But when other people ran, they'd run against one or two people, or three people. And it's a lot different. Seventeen people, we broke the all-time record. I think we're gonna do so great and I see some great polls. I see one from -- from the Los Angeles Times, just came out, where we're ahead by four or five points.I see one from CNN where we're down. I think these polls I don't know there's something about these polls. There's something phony.You know I watch CNN, they are so negative all day long, it's all Trump all day long, and you know what their ratings are going down, and their ratings are going to start to go down big because I don't do interviews for them. They're doing a big documentary on me now. They have one problem: they need an interview from me, so let them do it without me, who cares.But they're very unfair. All day long it's negative. In fact I have some great things that have happened, right? And they'll cover it in a negative manner, so it sounds negative, great stuff. Great stuff. Even when I was winning -- I was winning by tremendous numbers, we had numerous people left, and I'd get like 42 percent of the vote with many people, getting 42 percent is impossible. I get 42 percent they say why hasn't he hit 50? I said well they're 11 people, how do you get 50. You understand right?No, but CNN treats me so badly it's unbelievable. And you know what I don't watch it anymore, I don't watch. You know you learn to live good, you learn to stay healthy, you learn to have a good common smart mind by turning off the negative does that make sense? Turn it off, don't fight it, turn it off. Just turn it off. But CNN treats me so badly, I mean the New York Times, which I call the failing New York Times because it's failing, it's losing a fortune.And it will be -- I think it's out of business in three years, maybe somebody's going to buy it for a little while until they lose all that money, but they'll buy it for a little while and they'll keep it as -- you know some rich guys going to buy it. But the New York Times, which is -- it could do worse, I mean frankly that wouldn't be bad if somebody bought it -- but the New York Times is failing badly. They write stories that are so bad about me, and you know all my life I've probably been on the cover of the Times a few times, right?Now if I have two stories or three stories a day on the cover -- today I have two stories, both ridiculous stories -- but today I have two stories -- for the front page. I mean I guess they use me to sell newspapers, but they are so dishonest. The reporting is so dishonest. I won't get into individual reporters names, because I'd like to -- I could tell you the good ones and the bad ones. And they have a couple of good ones over there, but they are such a dishonest newspaper.They want Hillary Clinton to win so badly they cry, they beg, they beg. The editorials are unbelievable. I mean here's a woman who is a total thief, I mean she's a crook, she's a crook, and she lies more than any human being I've ever seen.And she's got no gravitas, and by the way, she's got a bad temperament. She's got a temperament of a loser. I mean I'm going to get the Barack Obama clips when he beat her. Eight years ago Barack Obama said things about her that were so bad, and today I just said, do me a favor look them up because I remember how bad. Now all of a sudden he's supporting her.And you know look it's a hope, because she's going to keep Obamacare, she's going to let people continue to pour into our country and we have no idea who the hell they are. She's going to let the Syrian refugees come in and we don't know if they're ISIS, we have no idea. It's going to be the all time great Trojan Horse -- they come in by the thousands.And she wants -- hard to believe, actually it was funny -- I actually said it was 500 percent and the press said I was wrong, they said it was 550. You believe that? They actually even corrected me on thaBut 550 percent more coming into the country that are coming in right now. Think of it. So someday, it always happens, look at France, look at Germany, look at what's going on with people blowing themselves up in a bar. With people shooting, look at Paris, look what happened in Paris, 130 dead, many, many people still in the hospital, they'll never be -- they'll never be recovered -- never be recovered.But you just take a look at what's happened and you tell me that we have to be weak. Weak and ineffective and that we have to allow tens of thousands of people to pour into our country.She wants 550 percent more people. Think of it, 550 percent more people coming in from that region that are coming in under Barack Obama. And you know they're put all over the country, you don't even know where the hell they are.So we're going to have problems like you have never seen, mark my words, I've been a very good prognosticator. I've called a lot of good things and bad things, but I've called them. But mark my words, you're going to see some bad stuff. We need strong borders. We need strong borders.We can't have people coming in from Syria that have bad intentions and we don't know who they are. And if we do, we are really a very, foolish nation. Look at what's happening with Germany. The crime wave over there -- Merkel's not going to be elected. You know Brexit, I predicted Brexit. Remember? I was the only one. So they were given a 20 percent chance in Las Vegas and the bookies over there, they were saying 20 percent chance.I said I think it's going to win. I took such heat, remember? I took such heat. I won and they gave me -- even though I won they all said bad things. Oh, they said I was grandstanding because I won. I just -- they said who's going to win? I said I think they're going to pull out. They're going to pull out of the union, the U.K. is going to pull out of the union.So I said, the European Union. So I said that's going to happen. And the reason is, I'm there, I have a lot of property in the U.K., great property, fantastic property -- Turnberry -- I have so many great properties. But you know what? I felt just -- I had a feel, and I'm not there much, I may never it again. If I win, I may never see my property -- I may never see these places again. But boy is Eric and the kids going to have a good time, right? They're going to have a good time.But, because I'm going to be working for you, I'm not going to have time to go play golf and...Believe me, folks.But I had a feeling. I said I think U.K.'s going for independence because they don't want to have people pouring into their country that they don't know where they are, who they are. They have enough. They have enough. And they've had enough. And they voted and it was a shock. And you know what, they're better off.And you watch, other countries in the European Union are going to follow. Because they were forced to take people and now it's getting to be catastrophic proportions. And you watch what happens to Angela Merkel, who I always thought of as a very good leader, until she did this. I don't know what went wrong with her. I don't know what went wrong. Angela, what happened? What happened Angela?And you take a look at what's going on in Germany, the real facts, OK. I have friends that live in Germany, for years they were so proud. They were saying this is the country, Donald, this is so great, this is the -- people now tell me they're going to leave Germany. Leave. I said what are you talking about? We're going to leave.They take in millions of people and they don't know anything about and what's going on, you know the terms of what's going on. The women have heard all about what's going on, OK? Let me tell you folks, we are allowing thousands and thousands of people into our country. I've spoken to the best law enforcement people that we have, who are great people, and they said there's no way to properly vet these people. There's no way. Because we don't know where they really come from, they have no paperwork so what they do is they make up paperwork. Everybody makes up paperwork. Remember when they stole our passport machine? Remember? They have a passport machine that's better than the stuff we have. OK?These are smart people by the way. This is not -- these are smart people. These are very smart people. And I have a bigger heart than anybody in this room or as big.We wanna do safe zones in Syria, I will get the Gulf States who are not doing much, believe me. The Gulf States have nothing but money. I'm gonna get them to pay. We are $19 trillion; we're not paying for it.We're not pay -- they're gonna pay, they are gonna pay. We are gonna get the Gulf States to pay for it. They're gonna pay. Don't forget, without us the Gulf States won't exist. They won't exist.So we're gonna get the Gulf States to pay.And we're gonna be the smart country again. But we're not gonna let this happen, where all of a sudden our cafes start blowing up, our movie theaters start blowing up, full of people and all of the other things that you've been seeing all over the world, I mean all over the world.Who would've believed that horrible scene in Nice, who would've believed a think like that's even possible? Just driving a truck down, killing everybody, running all over everybody.You know what they were screaming? They were screaming something that they always seem to scream OK? And I'll tell you what, it's not going to happen here. We're going to be very, very tough, and very, very smart.And we can be, folks -- we can be the stupid people and we can be the politically correct people and guess what? We're not gonna have much of a country left. Believe me, OK?First of all, she can't change. She's -- she's been doing it for 30 years. You know II say if she wants to change, why didn't she change? She's been doing this a long time.Her husband signed the worst trade deal in the history of the world, probably, and I really mean that, I'm not exaggerating: NAFTA. The worst -- now, they wanna do TPP, Transpacific Partnership. It's going to be as bad as NAFTA if not, worse.Numerous countries, documents that are 5,000 pages long. Our people haven't even read the documents, OK? I wanna do individual country, I like trade. Individual countries boom, boom, boom, if they do a bad job with us -- you have to see what this TPP looks like with the lines.Line, line, lines all over the place, looks like a jigsaw puzzle. Simple, simple deals are tough enough, complicated enough simple. Boom, individual countries. We're rewarding people that have treated us badly and they're going in with people that have treated us well meaning countries.I want individual countries. And if they do something bad or they devalue their currency so that our companies can compete because you're losing all your jobs, I mean I just left Pennsylvania, I just left Ohio, I just -- I'm going to be very soon in Michigan.Upstate New York is a disaster area, I mean you look at these -- you look at these big, beautiful plants that are just rotting. They're just rotting. I flew into Harrisburg, Pennsylvania yesterday and I looked down and I looked at -- it look like a war zone where you have these massive plants.And you could see 25 years ago vibrance -- families being taken care of, work, education, healthcare, people working. It's all in Mexico, now. The businesses have moved to Mexico and other places.But between China. Mexico, others, they've taken our businesses. Vietnam, very big right now, really taking over. I mean they're doing a great job for them not for us. Vietnam's a hot one right now, take a look.But we're not gonna let that happen, we're not gonna let it happen. We're gonna be smart. When a company moves and wants to move as an example to Mexico we're gonna wish them luck.But when they wanna sell their product back into this country we're gonna say sorry but you have a 35 percent tax to pay to get your product back in and when we do that they're not gonna move, they're not moving. They're not going to move.Because we will have taken the "economics of moving " away from this country. And I've watched for years, I've watched for years, more that just Obama, I've watched for a long period of time, president's saying, and politicians saying how do we keep our companies, because they're moving, they're just leaving. Remember they did the low interest loans, they don't need money. They did all sorts of tax abatements. They don't want tax abatements.I'm doing the ultimate, I'm saying you make a product outside of the country and when you leave and when you fire all of our people and you're going to now make that product in -- as an example Mex -- no, there are other places -- but when that product comes across the border you're going to pay a 35 percent tax. And here's what's going to happen. For the most part they're not going to move, OK. I think very few are going to move, because you've taken the whole point out. But they're not going to move.Number one very important, they're not going to move, and if they do move, we're going to make a fortune OK. So it's OK. In fact sometimes you say please move, please move, we'd like you to -- we'd like you send plenty of product in here. When China devalues it's currency, they're making it impossible for our companies to compete.But China doesn't want -- and I'm very close China, I have the biggest bank in the World as a tenant of mine in New York, the biggest in the world a Chinese bank. Don't worry about that baby I love babies.I love babies. I hear that baby crying and I like -- I like it, what a baby. What a beautiful baby, don't worry, don't worry. The mom's running around like -- don't worry about it, you know. It's young and beautiful, and healthy and that's what we want. OK, but look -- look China, when they devalue -- when China devalues it's currency they take our guts out. And they do it so often, they do it so often.They're constantly devaluing their currency. And they always wait until like it's a bad time, like we have a problem with Iraq, we have a problem with Afghanistan, every time we have like a big problem they always devalue. And a year and a half ago they devalued the biggest devaluation they've done in 20 years. The biggest in 20 years. And I said man how do they get away -- but we had a problem -- we were doing other things, OK. So when China does that we have fight back.Now here's how you fight back, because we can't fight back any other way. We have the piggy bank, they have ripped us to shreds, ripped us absolutely to shreds, actually I was only kidding you can get the baby out of here.That's all right, don't worry. I think she really believed me that I love having a baby crying while I'm speaking, that's OK. People don't understand, that's OK. But so you have a situation where a great country like China which is a massive -- which has really taken over now if you look. You look at the numbers, you know a year ago they passed us. If you would have said 10 years ago, 15 years ago that China would be passing us I would have said it's absolutely -- anybody would have said it's impossible.We've allowed them to pass us. Now when we have our manufacturers wanting to go to China, they can't get in, number one. Number two if they do get in they have to pay a massive tax. When Chinese companies want to sell to us, no tax, come on in fellas, we're stupid, we're stupid. Then they devalue. I had a friend, he was catching up with China, and he was really starting to compete. He's a very, very close -- conscious guy, it was hard for him, but he's a really good manufacturer, and then all of a sudden they did a massive devaluation -- boom -- and he's back to ground one. It's like you know you take two steps forward, three steps back.Guess what happened to him? The guys phenomenal he can't get his product into China. When he finally starts to be competitive, they devalued again. And in TPP -- now China is not in TPP -- but it works the same thing with other countries.Their single greatest toom is devaluation of the currency -- of their currency. We don't even have a clause in the agreement to cover it, OK? And because of the complexity -- 5,000 pages, nobody's going to read it and if you want to get out you can't because there's so many countries involved.So I say "One, one, one, one, one -- you do 15, you do 20, you do what everybody and if they don't behave, meaning if they're not good, if they take advantage of us we send them what we call a 30 day notice.Please be advised...Please be advised we are hereby terminating your agreement with the United States of America.Because you cheated, you cheated.You cheated on us and here's what's going to happen, now were are only dealing with one country. We no longer have to worry about you know lets bring this country to the tribunal of all the others countries -- nice and simple folks it's very complicated to start off with nice and simple. So out of the 5,000 pages, I'll bet we don't have one politician in Washington that's read even a page.And these other countries, smart as hell, smart countries by the way -- these are smart countries. They've read every word, every comma, every period, every paragraph, every sentence.They didn't read Obamacare, she's right. Well there's an example, thank you very much I was just about to say that.No, but Obamacare is a great example. Obamacare was like 2,500 pages. Not one politician read it and now were stuck with it. But don't worry. We're going to repeal it and replace it. But we're stuck with it.It should have died a couple of times, it should have died by our Supreme Court except one of our Republican presidents appointed a man, who kept Obamacare going.Shockingly right? And not one legal scholar can figure It out. It should have died the first time and it should have died the second time and we still have it. And that was a Republican appointee ok and speaking of appointees -- because there's been a few beauties -- speaking of appointees I am going to appoint great justices of the Supreme Court. Great.And...You know I actually told a group, last night in Pennsylvania, I told a group, I said -- and we had such a crowd, we had -- we had thousands of people -- like outside today. I mean you don't believe it, outside today, seriously we can't use these rooms anymore this is bigger than its ever been. It's a movement we have going -- we have a moment going -- but outside...And I told this group I said "This big, big " -- you know thousands of people I said "Listen even if people don't like me they have to vote for me." They have no choice -- even if you don't -- and you do like me I hope but, I said "Even if you can't stand Donald Trump, you think Donald Trump is the worst, you're going to vote for me."You know why?Justices of the Supreme Court if they pick -- if they pick judges, were going to end up with another Venezuela except just a bigger version, it's going to be a disaster for this country. And I've already chosen 11 that were vetted and that are so good -- these are great justices. Federalist Society looked at them, Heritage looked at them, people that were -- are really highly respected and I'm going to pick from that group and we already have one before we start, Judge Scalia.And I want to get as many as I can in the mold of Judge Scalia because...That's where we're looking. That's where we're looking, Justice Scalia, good man. And who knew that was going to happen? That was a surprise, people kept talking about different names but they didn't think him. And all of a sudden he's gone. That was shocking to people. So you never know what's going to happen.And I'll tell you, this could be the presidency with the most Supreme Court picks of any presidency in history. You'll probably have three, you could have four and you could even have five. Look, we have one before we even start, right? Judge Scalia. But you could even have five and can you imagine if Hillary Clinton picks five super-libs because what she is, is she's being pushed around by the Bernie Sanders crowd.Many of whom, are going to vote for us because of our trade policies, OK because they understand that trade is killing our country.All right?So, I want to go over a couple of facts before I do though, I want to just say this. Look, we have a movement going. This is beyond anything that anybody's ever seen. Commentators are saying on television, people that hate me, are saying on television that they have never seen anything like this, they call it the phenomenon. It's a phenomenon. They have never -- our crowds are much bigger than Bernie's were.And Bernie did good, Bernie was second, I will say that. Far greater. Hillary, last night in Harrisburg, where I had, I don't know 12,000 people, we had to send away thousands. Hillary had 800 people, OK? Now I don't know what it means, I mean maybe it doesn't mean anything. I think it should mean something, I think it should mean something.I mean when you have crowds that are many, many times the size of your opponent, I would think that it would mean something. But we have these massive crowds. I mean I felt so badly about when I went through and I'm waving to everybody but they're all standing out there and I feel guilty about it.But here's the story, we have a movement going, it's an incredible movement. It's a movement like they say they've never seen in this country before. And I say it a lot because I have a lot of respect for him, Bill O'Reilly. He said it's the single greatest phenomenon. He called it the Trump phenomenon. It's the single greatest phenomenon, politically speaking, that he has ever seen in his lifetime. I mean that's -- you know, guy's seen a lot of stuff, right?And Bret Baier said it. Bret Baier, good guy, said it. And Brit Hume who said it. He doesn't like me too much but he said that, or something similar. And people have said this, that what we are doing is one of the great political phenomena of all time but very importantly, it's one of the great movements of all time. We've got to finish it off. We've got to finish it off.We've got to beat...We've got to beat a dishonest machine, totally dishonest machine. You know as an example how Hillary got away with what she got away with recently. How do you get away with it? Everybody thought, oh wow she's guilty. However, now what she got away with was a disgrace, honestly. A disgrace to our country, but she got away with it.And who would think that that could have happened? And then on top of it she lies on Sunday saying, oh I was just actually fine. I did everything fine. And that was not said. You know it was said, very embarrassingly. Nobody could believe that happened. That whole thing was incredible, but we have to learn from it. It's a crooked system. It's a rigged system. We're running against a rigged system and we're running against a very dishonest media. The media's very dishonest. It's very, very dishonest.What they don't take -- Patty Smith -- when they don't take Pat, whose an unbelievable woman and they give her virtually no air time, and they give other people unbelievable amounts of air. It's just so unfair, it's so unfair, we're running against a rigged press. We're running against dishonest people.OK, really dishonest people.And -- and hey look it was rigged against Bernie Sanders, you could see that from all of those emails. Debbie Wasserman Schultz, no no, but you could see it, it was a rigged deal. He never had a chance, the guy works so hard, and now he's got buyers remorse.You know you look at him, if he would have done nothing, if he would have just gone home and gone to sleep he would have been so -- because he made a deal with the devil, he made a deal with the devil. And he made a bad deal, and then she picks a Vice President that's the exact opposite of everything that Bernie represents.Now I don't agree with what Bernie represents, but I mean, honestly, it was almost 50 percent of their party. You would have thought she would have given him a little bit of a bone. She gave him nothing, she gave him nothing. So we have to get everybody out, Loudon County is so important. And really I'm a big employer here, I'm a big, big employer here.And -- and everybody in this room -- everybody in this room knows how great that project is and how successful it's been because many of you -- whose been there, how many people have been there?It's one of the great projects in the country, all along the Potomac River, one of the great -- thank you -- one of the great projects in the country. So let's go over a couple of numbers because you have to see this to really believe it.And by the way, Hillary Clinton has not had a news conference I think it's in 242 days. She doesn't do news conferences because she can't. Because for a number of reasons, but number one she's so dishonest, she doesn't want the people peppering her with questions, so she doesn't do news conferences, it's a disgrace.I think it's 242 days, you know what that is -- and she probably won't have one, maybe she won't have one. Maybe we'll force her to have one, but she probably won't have one.So listen, since 2000 the number of unemployed people in Virginia has doubled. Now these are right out of the book so, statisticians OK. Virginia has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. Signed by Bill Clinton, one of the worst ever, OK. Hillary rammed through the job killing trade deal with South Korea in 2011.That South Korean deal is a disaster for us. But look at the people that give her money, and look how their involved in that deal. The U.S. trade deficit with TPP members -- these are the members going into the Transpacific Partnership, which Obama wants, which Hillary wanted, she called it the gold standard, but when she heard me talking about it she said she didn't want it.But as you're governor said, Terry McAuliffe, Governor of Virginia, he said don't worry, don't worry, let her get elected and she'll approve it. She'll make a couple of minor changes, she'll approve it. This was said, then they backpedaled, well he doesn't speak -- let me tell you Terry McAuliffe knows her better than Bill knows her. Terry knows her better than anybody, your Governor, he made this statement. OK, all right, so here's a couple of things that are just sort of amazing. President Obama has doubled the national debt since he's been in office.U.S. trade deficit in goods reached nearly $800 billion. In other words, we trade with people. You know, it's funny when I want to make good trade deals the press says oh, he's not a free trader.I'm a great free trader. I like free trade. But I like smart deals. Somebody said well, then what do you call yourself? Because I know free trade, I know fair trade, I know every form of trade ever thought up by man. Believe me, it's meaningless.So they said what are your policies? I said my policies are very simple, I wanna make great deals for our country OK? Very simple.You can call it fair trade, free trade or any other of the other 10 ten names. I want great deals for our country. And I was endorsed by Carl Icahn some of the greatest business leaders in the world. And we have to use our great business people to negotiate the deals.Because we're using political hacks to make deals and it's a joke. The Chinese people look at us like we are the dumbest people. They are using their smartest, their brightest from the time they're three years old, you know they have like a pyramid, right?Boom, boom, boom, they use the guys right on the top. And they walk in and deal with our clowns and they say I can't believe we've gotten away with this. For years and years and years, we've rebuilt China with our trade. We've rebuilt China.We have so much power over China and if they don't behave we throw a 10 percent tax on goods coming in from China. We will make a fortune. And you know what? They're gonna send the same goods.Then what are they going to say, we're not gonna send because we're not gonna pay a 10 percent tax? But when they raise their currency -- when they do things with their currency, they manipulate. And they knock out their currency.And they devalue their currency and they do all their masters, they're grand masters at currency and a currency manipulation. We have the ultimate -- we say thank you very much.Now, just so you understand, when we send things to China they charge us a tax. So people would say Donald Trump is not a free trader. I'm a free trader. But it's gotta be a two-way street, right? I mean it's gotta be a two-way street. They're killing us.$23.8 million Americans in their prime earning years are out of the labor force right now. In the last seven years, another 14 million people have left the workforce OK? Nearly 4 in 10 African American children are living in poverty while 58 percent of African American youth are not employed, OK?Two million more Latinos are in poverty today than when President Obama took office. Now, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. We're gonna bring jobs back.Thank you, that's very nice. We're gonna bring jobs back. That's why we had a very good poll recently with the Hispanics. And it was an amazing poll. And you know -- way up from what people thought.Because people want jobs. And by the way, the Latinas, the Hispanics, they don't want -- and you understand this, they don't want people pouring into our country taking their jobs, taking their houses.They want -- they wanna have security, they really want the wall. They want the wall.We're gonna have a strong border and we're going have the wall. We're going have the wall.Oh we're going build a wall, don't even think about it. We're going build a wall and you know -- you know and I say it and I mean it, Mexico's paying for the wall folks.You know, if Mexico wanted to, they could stop all of the problems that are coming into our country, including the drugs. New Hampshire -- which I won -- I got to know the people so well up there. What's your number one problem? Heroin coming from the southern border.And I said doesn't make sense, you go to South Carolina, North Carolina. No matter where. Here, you go no matter where, we have drugs pouring into our country. We could stop it. You see, our politicians don't wanna stop it because there are people out there that make a lot of money with that and they take care of the politicians. They don't wanna stop it. They could stop it.But Mexico could stop it, without even us, 16,500 border patrol agents endorsed me recently, OK?Sheriff Joe, endorsed me. Sheriff Joe Arpaio.From Arizona, which is great. We're gonna get it going. But we're gonna build a wall, Mexico's gonna pay for the wall and some politician came up to me. Number one, you can't build a wall.I said really, China just build a 13 -- 2,000 years ago -- built a 13,000 -- China built a 13,000 mile long 2,000 years ago. We have 1,000 miles that we need. It's 2,000 miles but we need 1,000 you have natural barriers.We need 1,000 miles. So China can do 13,000 mils 2,000 years ago -- and that's the serious wall by the way in case anybody hasn't seen it. And we can't do -- we can't do a wall that's 1,000 miles and we have Caterpillar tractors. And we're gonna use Caterpillar, by the way. We're not going with Komatsu. We're not going with Komatsu.So here is one of the most depressing stats. According to the second quarter GDP report, you saw this yesterday, the economy only grew at 1.2 percent. This is the third straight quarter that the economy has grown under two percent and is the single weakest -- weakest of any economic expansion in more than 70 years.So we have the weakest expansion in 70 years and it's going back -- now it's going down because the numbers are getting worse and worse all the time. If they get real bad I hope it happens fast so I don't have to -- they'll all blame me.You'll end up winning and your first day the economy crashes because of some incompetent people before me well, we're gonna straighten up. But we'll certainly blame them. OK, we're going to blame them.No but think of it, the weakest in 70 years, 70 years. I mean it's terrible. Now, here's another one. U.S. home ownership, the rate fell, of ownership, to 62.9 percent in the second quarter.The lowest rate of home ownership in more than 50 years, terrible. Did Hillary mention any of these facts in her optimistic speech?OK and we're not talking about the shooting of the police which by the way is at massive levels, massive levels. We're not talking about crime. In major cities, our crime is going through the roof.You look at what's going on in some of these cities, crime is up numbers that you wouldn't even believe. They don't talk about that, they talk about how everything's wonderful.Look, with Hillary you're gonna have four more years of Obama and you know what? If you have four more years of Obama our countries finished. It's finished.Here's one that's an amazing -- here's one that's amazing. Household incomes are more than $4,000 lower than their levels in the year 2000. Think of it, household -- you're making $4,000 less now than you did 16, 17 years ago.D.Another one that's very common and out there, people -- many people in this room -- but people are making, in terms of real wages, less money today than they made 18 years ago. And they're working two jobs in many cases and that's because of Obamacare.Because Obamacare, it makes sense for employees to do part time workers. So you'll have a worker who's worked at a company for years and all of a sudden the boss goes up to him to say I hate to do it, with tears, and says I've got to make you a part time employee.Because of Obamacare. It's forced people to be part time employees. It's a horrible thing that's going on in this country. And you didn't hear that in Hillary Clinton's speech. You didn't hear that, you didn't hear that. You heard all is slowing stuff. It's a disaster. And then when you look at other countries, how they've built up their military -- look at Russia. How they've built up their military.Take a look at what they've done. Take a look at what they've done on the nuclear weapons front. How they built up their military and how we're so far behind and our equipment is obsolete in many cases, and we have jet fighters that are so old that they have to go to graveyards, airplane graveyards and museums to get parts for current jet fighters.And we have our pilots, our wonderful, incredible pilots saying it didn't use to be this way. And now they're older and they're going to leave and they're going to retire and they don't want to stay. They're so depressed at what's happened. But they're fighting, you saw the report, you probably all saw it. They had documentaries on television about how old our aircraft is in our services.And you have other countries, you look at China, what they're doing with their massive, with their massive installations that they're building in oceans. South China Sea, massive, we would never even think about it. No, we've got to get smart folks, we've got to get smart. We're falling way behind.We're falling. And I can keep reading this stuff, it's just point after point, you're doing lousy over here by the way, hate to tell you, but point here's recent factory closings in Virginia, all right? Right? Kennametal, Ball Corporation, closed. Kennametal closed. Sandvik closed. Moved their jobs to Mexico. Let's see, Mexico, Mexico, Mexico, Mexico, yes. Smith Foods Inc. closed its plant, 400 workers gone. Anybody used to work for Smithfield?That's true. I -- it's true. Stanley Furniture closed its plant in Vista. Laid off 400 workers, closed its plant. Moved their jobs to China and Canada. North Carolina has lost so many jobs. Pennsylvania has lost tremendous numbers of jobs. Ohio has lost 34 percent of their manufacturing jobs since China's entrance into the World Trade Organization. Folks, what are we doing? What are we doing?Are we -- we're being led by stupid people, folks.And people that are controlled.People that are controlled by special interests and lobbyists so here's the story. So we've got to build up our military, we've got to make great trade deals. I told you that no more, when our companies leave, they want to -- they think they're going to leave and sell us back-product from a different company with other employees from other nations, not going to happen.Not going to happen. I mean it's going to happen, but they're going to pay for it. There's going to be consequence. They're going to pay a tax, very simple. Now a lot of people think I'm not conservative because I want them to pay a tax. I think they're not conservative because they're stupid.OK, they're stupid.And by the way, it's 100 percent foolproof. We're not talking about oh, maybe it will work. Can you imagine they used to go around and offer companies loans? And its not even funny. We'll give you an interest free loan if you stay. And a couple of companies took the money and then left because they forgot to say you had to stay. The lawyers didn't do too good a job.But look, look, we have to be the smart people again. We have to be -- and we don't have much of a choice because we are losing so many of our jobs and we can't take our factories and keep taking our factories and converting them into nursing homes. You know nursing homes are wonderful, but we have to make things again. We need jobs, we need jobs. It's wonderful. Nursing homes is wonderful. But we need jobs.I see things happen where there's a couple of beautiful jobs up in New England, they've taken an old factory, they've converted it into -- and it's all fine. But we can't do that. We need manufacturing jobs. We need the income, we need the productivity, we need the future. We -- as you stand here right now, there are companies negotiating from Virginia, right here.They're negotiating to leave Virginia and move to Mexico and other places, as you stand here. Some of the people in this room work for companies that are right now under negotiation to get out. If I get in, that ends. Hillary won't do anything about it, she talks, she knows her way now, she's talking about trade. Did you notice two days ago she said, I've been talking about, we're going to re-negotiate NAFTA.And if they don't give us a great deal and if we don't re- negotiate a great deal, we're terminating NAFTA, we're getting out and we'll bring our jobs back a different way, OK? So...The other day, now that was like, a horrible thing to say. Two days ago, Hillary Clinton said, we are going to start re-negotiating our trade deals. She can't do it. Number one, if she wanted to she can, but they wouldn't let her. Those people that put up all that money for her, those 20 people and there's plenty of more of them, they won't let her do it. She can't do it, if she wanted to, she can't do it. So she's just kidding all of you. So we're going to make America great again.We're going to build up our military, so depleted. We're going to take care of our veterans, who have been treated horribly.We're going to make phenomenal trade deals, we're going to make trade deals that bring jobs back, not trade deals where we lose our businesses and our jobs.We're going to have strong borders, we're going to have the wall, Mexico's going to pay for the wall, and we're going to have people come into our country but they're going to come into our country legally, legally.We're going to appoint great Justices of the United States Supreme Court.We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.And we're going to start winning again, folks. We're going to win on every front. I want to thank everybody in Loudoun County, I love this place, I'm here a lot. I want to thank everybody. I want to thank everybody in the state of Virginia. Virginia, we are going to be here so much you're going to be so sick of me, you're going to say, please keep him out of here, we'll vote for you, but please keep him out. I'm going to be in Virginia a lot, we're going to be here a lot.And just so you know, we are going to be proud of our country again. We're going to put America First. We are going to start winning again. We are going to make America great again. Thank you very much, thank you folks. Thank you very much. Take care everybody.So how good is he? How good is he?Special. Special. He is a special man and special person. And he has become my friend. Oh, there is a lot of people here. Whoa.Hello, everybody. Your football team is going to have a great year.I watch. I watch. You've got the quarterback, you've got the whole deal. I think it's going to be a very good year.OK? And if you get into that Super Bowl, I will be going, all right?So, you know, I wrote something down before, and I think it is important, because -- I love you too.Because we need unity, we have to win this election. This is truly one of the most important elections, certainly in my lifetime. Because we are about to go -- we lose it, we are in the wrong direction, and maybe it's gone. Supreme Court justices, always remember that. But so many different levels, and when you see what happened with Crooked Hillary today, it was a disaster.So, I want to -- I just wrote this out. I wanted to say to the group, you know, I had a great time when I was in Wisconsin, and I did not quite eke it out. I thought I was going to, but after that, it worked out well. You built me up, you taught me about politics.And when I left here, I said, I think I've learned a lot.So, I love it. I love the people. I have many friends in Wisconsin. And they're -- they're incredible people. You're incredible people, I have to tell you that.It is time for a change. We need a change. A real change, not an Obama change. We don't need an Obama change. We have had enough. It is time to change a rigged political system that works only for the insiders, and replace it with a government that serves the people.Have to do it. And know both sides. I've been on the other side. Believe me. I actually like this side better; this is a movement. This is a movement like they may be have never seen in this country, according to even the political pundits that truly hate me, OK? This is a -- they -- oh, this is a movement that some say, most say is one of the great phenomenons that they've ever seen in politics.Some say it's the single greatest phenomenon.Though the media doesn't want to talk about it, we have done something -- we. All of us, together. I'm a messenger; I'm only a messenger. We have done something truly historic together, standing before you as nominee for president and I'm not a politician, proudly.I'm not part of the system. I ran against the system, and I'm probably better off running against the system.I ran against the donors. I'm my own donor, essentially. I have a lot of money under this deal. This is a very expensive crisis, I want to tell you.I funded -- as you know, I funded the primaries. And I'm in for under $60 million, and I'm largely funding my campaign as we go forward. In addition to that -- in addition to that, we have raised tremendous amounts of money, and much of it from small donors, $61; $61. As a Republican, that doesn't happen. It happens because of what you are seeing in front of you today.And if you remember, just prior to June, they did a story, "Donald Trump has not really done too well with fund raising." Well, that is because I did not even know if I was getting the nomination. I'm not going to raise funds -- I would've had enough if I didn't make it. I would have said, "Bye, bye, politics."But I wanted to make sure -- so I got it. And then I started raising money for the Republican Party. and we raised a lot of money. We started really on June 14th, Flag Day, my birthday. My birthday.And in June, we raised approximately -- think of this -- $51 million. Can you imagine?And those people couldn't believe it; they were really surprised. Big headlines, you know. Because they don't give me too many good headlines. I could do the greatest things. I do things that I think a fantastic.I say, good, there is no way they cover this badly. And they cover it badly. I gently tell a woman that I love her baby, and let the baby cry. It is OK. As the baby that had a voice that was superior to Pavarotti continued to cry -- I remember, I told her to stay, don't worry, ma 'am.But after about 3 or 4 minutes, and I'm trying to speak and it was in Jacksonville, we had this massive, massive crowd, filled up the stadium. And the baby's screaming. So, I said, ma 'am, I would like to reverse my order. Perhaps you could nicely take -- take the baby out. Your baby is great.I did it so nicely. She was happy. Even the baby was happy. He stopped crying.And maybe you could take the baby out, would that be possible? The whole place was cracking up. And the next day in the newspaper, it said, "Trump throws baby out of arena."Terrible. Now, they are very dishonest. That was a tough one, when I -- and I just had a reporter come up to me, backstage, a reporter come up -- "Mr. Trump, sir, but why did you throw that baby out of the area?" I said, "I was having fun. I was so nice, I was so nice. Everybody likes me. The baby liked me, the mother liked me. We had a good time. I try to keep the baby in, but the baby was such -- had such a powerful voice."IN fact, I want to find out who that baby is, because I want to sponsor the baby. And that baby will sing someday in Philharmonic Hall. I'm telling you. New York City. OK? The great Philharmonic.So, I'm not part of the system. I ran against the system. I ran against the donors, because I'm largely my own donor. I'm running against myself. That's sort of -- never thought of it that way. And against the status quo, and the status quo, we have to get rid of, because it is not working, folks, because the country is a mess.And that is why put up a lot of money. But while the Democrats nominated the candidate of special interests, and really a candidate of total corruption, I mean, you take a look at what she is doing, the Republicans made history by choosing a nominee from outside of this very, very corrupt the system. It is a corrupt system.It's a corrupt system. You want something done, they couldn't do it for you. And that is not necessarily, and usually it isn't good for the country.That is why we're going to be able to deliver real change, and real safety and real opportunity to all Americans. We have to unite. Remember that.Everything I've accomplished, I have done by putting together a really fantastic team, including Governor Mike Pence of Indiana, who has done an incredible...Done an incredible job. My wonderful staff of people that really love what we are doing, and they are working so hard. My family, friends, and it's expanding all the time.But I need a Republican Senate and a House to accomplish all of the changes that we have to make. We have to make them, right?I understand and embrace the wisdom of Ronald Reagan's big tent within the party, big, big tent, remember? Ronald Reagan, great man, great guy. Remember he included Reagan Democrats and Independents and Republicans, a lot of people. We're going to have the same thing. There a lot of Democrats perhaps in this room, are there a lot of Democrats? Raise your hands. I mean, I don't think we need too many to be honest with you, but -- so I embraced the wisdom that my 80 percent friend is not my 20 percent enemy, Ronald Reagan.Stated by Ronald Reagan, pretty good.We will be the big tent party. We are going to have a lot of cross help. We are going to have a lot of Bernie Sanders people coming in because of trade, because Bernie Sanders knew we were being ripped off by trade. Trade is a disaster with China, with Japan, with Mexico, with Vietnam, with so many countries, with every country, every country.We don't win at any level with anything, and as a unified party, we will lead our country to unity as well, very important. We need the unity, we have to win the election.No we have to win it -- have to win it. Otherwise, our big movement was not as big as we thought and that's not good. That's why November 8th, you've got to get everybody you know -- and you know, all this voter ID nowadays, a lot of places aren't going to have voter ID. Now what does that mean? What does that mean? You just keep walking in and voting? So you have to be very careful, very vigilant -- you have to be careful.But we will have disagreements, but we will disagree as friends and never stop working together toward victory, and very importantly, toward real change.So in our shared mission to make America great again, I support and endorse our speaker of the House, Paul Ryan.Paul Ryan, he's good. He's a good man. He's a good man and he's a good guy. And we may disagree on a couple of things, but mostly we agree and we're going get it done and we're going to do a lot of wonderful things.He's a good man. And while I'm at it, I hold in the highest esteem Senator John McCain for his service to our country, in uniform and in public office, and I fully support and endorse his reelection. Very important.We'll work together. I also fully support and endorse Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire.A state I truly love, primarily because that was my first victory, but I love New Hampshire. No, I love New Hampshire, one of the most beautiful places. She's a rising star and will continue to represent the great people of New Hampshire so very well for a long, long time. Senator Kelly Ayotte.Working hand-in-hand, we will grow our majority in the House and in the Senate. We need that, we've got to get things done. Arm in arm, we will rescue the nation from the Obama-Clinton disaster, which is exactly what it is, that has bled our country dry and spread terrorism unabated across the world, that's what's happening. You saw it just now, Maps came out yesterday, they said ISIS far bigger, it's all over the place. It's all over the place. We're going to get rid of it, folks.Our military is depleted. We're going to build up our military, we are going to get others with us. Believe me, we're going to get plenty of others with us. And speaking of others, wouldn't it actually be wonderful if we could get along with Russia? Wouldn't that be nice?They talk so big and so brave and so tough, they're the tough ones. You know, Hillary's real tough, give me a break. Wouldn't that be great? We get along with Russia, we go out together with others and we knock the hell out of ISIS, wouldn't that be great?Together we will lead our country back to prosperity, security and peace. OK? When you look at the world and what's happened -- so we have the queen of corruption, she's the queen of corruption. She is a disaster. I said before, if Crooked Hillary Clinton becomes president, terrorism will destroy the inner workings of our country. Believe me, they are loving it.She wants to have 550 percent more people coming in from Syria and that region into our nation. And we don't know who they are, we don't know where they come from really, we don't know if they're ISIS, some will be. And look at the damage that's done in San Bernardino with a couple -- probably he became radicalized by her -- a couple, and these were friends of theirs. These were people that gave a party in celebration of the birth of their child and they were gunned down, 14 people killed, many, many injured.Take a look at Orlando -- take a look at Orlando, how disgusting that was. Take a look at the World Trade Center and so many other places. Go to the probably toughest gun laws anywhere in the world, go to Paris and take a look at that, 130 people gunned down. You know, if people had guns, on the other side where the bullets are flying in the other direction, like you sir, you sir, you and you, ma 'am.First of all, if they knew guns were in the room, they probably wouldn't have gone there. There were no guns. They were just sitting ducks, 130 people. In San Bernardino you had 14 people.But in Paris, just like this, boom -- get over here, boom -- get over here, boom -- 130 people with many still in the hospital, many so gravely wounded. It's horrible. And if they had bullets flying in the other direction, maybe they wouldn't have shown up, and if they did, I'll tell you what, you wouldn't have had that kind of carnage. You would have had people lying on the other side of the floor instead.So Hillary Clinton wants to do major damage, as you know, to our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to put judges -- she wants to put justices of the Supreme Court -- she's going to make them nice and liberal, wait until -- wait until you see what that does to your rights. Wait until you see what that does to your Second Amendment. You will not recognize it, you will not recognize it. National Rifle Association, NRA, endorsed me.They're great people, Wayne -- they're great people, Chris, they love this country. They endorsed me very early and it's really a -- it's really an honor. I'll tell you what, they are phenomenal people when you get to know them. They love the country -- you know, they love the country. They take a lot of heat, but they love the country, I'll tell you that right now.And I heard Mike, Governor Pence, talking about 1.2 growth -- 1.2 percent growth, the lowest in memory since the 1940's. When you think about it, it's the lowest. So a lot of differences between all of us, but I thought I would mention -- because I've known Hillary Clinton over the years -- I know her -- and she makes statements. She makes statements and they are statements coming out of her playbook.Well, let's see, "we can't get them for this -- can't get them for this." I've always heard that I have the best temperament, people tell me I have the best temperament, I have a temperament to win. We got to win. We got to win.She said not so long ago, "I don't like Donald Trump's tone." Now, she is reading it off teleprompters only. "I don't like Donald trump's tone." And I said, you know, "we need a tough tone today. We have people -- we need a kind tone, but we need a tough tone."So they chop off heads and they drown people, and they bury people in sand. And then they ask me, "Mr. Trump, sir," -- at one of the debates in which I won, I'm very happy about that -- "Mr. Trump, sir, how do you feel about waterboarding?" I'm seeing chopped off heads, drowned people, burying in sand -- I said, "I'm absolutely OK with it, let me tell you."Can you imagine what the enemy must say -- can you imagine the enemy -- ISIS in this case -- can you imagine what they must say as they spent the day chopping off the heads of Christians -- "come back, get together and start talking -- and they say waterboarding is not allowed in the United States -- by the United States, waterboarding is not allowed."Folks, we better get smart and tough and we are playing games with Hillary, we are playing games. It is just games, she is not the right person and everybody knows it. Her single greatest achievement is being caught in a crime and getting away with it.So I wrote this before on the way over to another rally at also a very nice place that's very full and very nice in Iowa. And we love Iowa don't we, yes? Right?I thought it was accurate, unstable -- and she is, she is unstable. Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment that Bernie Sanders had. You just have to pay attention, as soon as he said it, I started writing notes."She has bad judgment. She lacks the judgment, temperament and moral character to lead this country. Plus, she is a weak person." We don't need a weak person. He just said, "plus, she is a criminal."She is a dangerous liar who has disregarded the lives of Americans, and who has put all of us at great risk while supporting economic policies that have destroyed our economy. We have a long way to go.She is unhinged, she's truly unhinged, and she is unbalanced, totally unbalanced. And you can see, in the words of a secret service agent who just wrote a book, I bought the book, I wanted to see what he had to say; "she simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office.""From my bottom of my soul " he said, "I know this to be true." He was there. "Her leadership style, volcanic impulsive as it is, disdainful of the rules set for everyone else hasn't changed a bit. She's unqualified to become president." And she really is, and Bernie said that too.Thank you. What great people. Wow.No, but it is true, no games, it is true. In one way she is a monster, OK? Look at what happened, look at her history. In another way, she is a weak person, she is actually not strong enough to be president. So she's got both, but she is not strong enough to be president.She will be a be a disaster. She will be so bad for our country, and I'm not just talking about Justices of the Supreme Court. She will be so bad for our country and we can't let it happen. We can't let it happen.You know, Mike Pence told me a story, and maybe I should not say it, but I found it interesting, but of the reasons -- I guess the primary reason that he's in politics is because he watched the crookedness of the Clintons when they were in the White House. And he said "he ran, he ran again and he ran again, and he won." You have to hand it to him, this is the guy that does not give up. He does not quit. He never ever quits.But he watched the Clintons -- and I'm sure they will be thrilled to hear that -- but that actually got him into politics, which is interesting.So then we make these horrible deals; Iran Deal, horrible deal, we got $150 billion -- and how about $400 million -- think of it, $400 million in cash, different currencies, different denominations. Now, lot of people say that money went toward terror.I'm nicer than that, see, I don't have that horrible thought process that some people have in this room have. I say, some of it went to terror, but a lot of it went into their bank accounts, believe me, that's the way it is. It went into their pockets, can you imagine these guys sitting there with $400 million in cash? You think they're giving that money to terror, they are giving that money to them and I guess terror got some of it, but most of it they kept.I mean, the concept of paying $400 million in cash is mind- boggling. I mean, you wouldn't think -- who can authorize such a thing? Where did they get it? What did they do, go to a bank teller and say, "give me $400 million in cash? I want to in euros, I want it in Swiss francs, wrap it up, we will come back in 10 minutes."I mean, it is just inconceivable. So we are witnessing a horror show in this country and throughout the world. You look at what is going on throughout the world with these same people, these people funding terror -- these people are funding terrorism. For us to have given $400 million to basically free our hostages.Now, Obama, just like he lied about Obamacare which was a tremendous lie, that was a tremendous lie, remember? "You can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor." Really? How many people have been able to keep the doctor or their plan?Keep your plan, keep your doctor -- not working that way, folks. It is a disaster. By the way, it is going to be repealed and replaced 100 percent.And -- and honestly, I hope I win, because we will do a great job. We are going to make America great again. We're going to make America great again.But I actually think that regardless of who wins, Obamacare is going to fold in any event. It is so expensive. People can't afford it and the country can't afford it. Other than that, it is just wonderful. So, in Texas, they just had almost a 60 percent increase. Now the increases are starting to come out. The big increase is going to be announced on November 1st. The election is November 8th. Folks, they want to delay it, because it is election-changing. It is a mess.It is election changing, and they want to change it. And we can't let that happen.Because the numbers -- and I can see some of the numbers already -- the numbers are going to be astronomical. They are going to be astronomical. They're going to be so big, so horrible, and the health care, you know, the plan is terrible. It's terrible. And we're going to take care of everybody, but we're going to end up with a great plan that costs much less money for the people and much less money for the country.This plan is a total rip. It does not work, so it's going to fall, because economically, it is a disaster for the country, too.But what about people where they said they had a 30, 40, 50, 60 percent increase? And it's going to be worse than that, I predict on November 1st.So, we'd better get smart and we'd better start thinking properly.Now, I want to talk about what is going on at the borders, because money...Oh, we're going to build it.So, listen, so we have people coming to our country that should not be coming to our country. We have thousands and thousands of people from certain terrorist states, from certain parts of the world that we are allowing to come into our country.Most of the politicians, almost all of them don't even know where they are, where they are being put, they know nothing about these people. This could be the great Trojan Horse of all time. And Hillary wants thousands more to come in over and above Obama. Right?So, tall -- and the wall is getting taller every day.If you think of this, I just wrote this, the Obama-Clinton foreign-policy has handed huge portions of Iraq, Libya and Syria to ISIS. Huge portions. It has undermined stability in Egypt, and you know what they have to do over there. And empowered Iran as never before. Iran, three years ago was -- was dying. In fact, when they were marching in the streets, if Obama would have just encouraged them a little more, it would have been taken over by the people.But Obama played ball with the thugs that are running it right now. Think of this, think of this. Look, look. We're making a deal, and the deal is not made, and they are dancing in the streets of Iran saying how stupid the Americans are to be making this deal.The leaders, and in particular the leader of Iran, is calling us stupid, and the deal means nothing.And yesterday, I think he just said that the United States is essentially nothing.This is our -- this is our great, great partner.But when you have somebody -- if I was making this deal, and if the other side was bragging about it, the deal wasn't made, I'm not making that deal. I'm not making it. I'm walking.But we kept it going, and we should have never ever started negotiating that deal until we had our hostages back. OK?We should have walked. We should have doubled up the sanctions and walked. And they would have -- and I say it. Before the plane reached New York City or Washington, you could just turn it around, because they'll call you, they'll say, let's go. Take your hostages.But when you think about it, you probably read today and yesterday, one of the hostages was waiting for a very long period of time. Now, Obama said that it had nothing to do with the hostages. That he would not do that for kidnappers.He would not do that for kidnapping. OK? No, no, think of that. You have got to think about it. He wouldn't do it -- now, it was the same day, right, same day. We have to be exactly accurate, because they'll catch us, right? Same day.The money came in, and one of the hostages, a good guy, I saw him interview on television. Good guy, hard time. Btu didn't he say he waited forever, he waited. And somebody said, nope, we are waiting for either something or a plane to come in.And here Obama stands up yesterday, and for seven minutes is telling us one thing had nothing to do with the other. Just a lie. You know, at least be truthful.And we're talking about the same day, $400 million, and we could have had something that would have been a much better deal. And you know what, I'm all in favor of deals when it gets to nuclear. But we could have made it -- we should have walked. And we should have walked with $150, too; we have said, sorry, we don't have the money, can't pay. We don't have the money. We owe almost $20 trillion.I'm sorry, fellas, we love you, we think you're the greatest guys on Earth. But we can't give you the money. We don't have it. And they will get angry and they will be upset, and two days later, you'll be back negotiating.You just saved yourself $150 billion, right? Hundred and -- $150 billion.So, we have terrorists pouring into our country, we have people coming in. I don't know if you saw this, in Maine -- and Maine knows, because Maine is -- I was up there yesterday -- a great place. A great governor, great governor. Paul is doing a great job.And I think the most important issue facing civilization right now is radical Islamic terrorism. And we have a president that refuses to use the term, and we have Crooked Hillary who does not want to use it. Now, she's being forced to use it by me.Did you notice she gave a speech, she said, I will use it. She called it, I think, radical Islam. But she said, I will use it. I will. Just like the Transpacific Partnership. She called it the gold standard. It is a horror show.It's almost as bad or maybe it's going to worse than NAFTA, signed by her husband, which cleaned out many of the states in our country, cleaned them out from manufacturing. Moved to Mexico and other places. NAFTA, a total disaster.NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton. He never suffered the ravages, because he signed it, then he got out and other people did suffer with it.But we are going to renegotiate NAFTA, and if they don't want to make a great deal for us so we get our jobs back, at least a lot of them, if we can't make a great deal -- and she can't do that, by the way, if she wanted to.Number one, her donors would not let her. Her special interests would never let her. Her lobbyists would never let her.Number three, she could not do it anyway. Even if she wanted to.But we're going to renegotiate. And did you hear her the other day? After years of saying how wonderful it is, even though you look at New England, and you look at New York state and you look at Pennsylvania and Ohio, if you look at a lot of other places, one of the reasons I won Indiana so big -- well, one of the reasons was the great Bobby Knight, OK?Bobby Knight in Indiana.That's gold standard right? As she said about TPP. But one of the reasons I won was because Carrier Air Conditioning was moving to Mexico from Indiana, and they let go of 1,400 people.And I've been talking about this, and I know how to stop it, and you've heard me before, so easy to stop. There have to be consequences when Mexico takes our companies. And not only Mexico; there have to be consequences when China devalues its currency so that our companies can no longer compete with China, even though we make better product.I have friends who are manufacturers. We make better product. They can't get their product into China no how. And when a few times arise where they can, they have to pay an incredible tax, beyond what anybody would even think costs. But yet, we open our doors and just throw away your stuff, and we lose our jobs and it is very, very said.But look, as many know, a major destination -- Maine, has become a major destination for Somali refugees. We admit hundreds of thousands of refugees into the United States from many of the most dangerous and unstable regions in the world. And you are getting them here too folks, you just don't know it because you just don't know.Anybody in this room -- anybody in this room from a terror territory? All right, a practice -- and this is a practice which will continue under Hillary Clinton except it will expand five, six, seven fold. I don't get it. I mean, I know they will vote Democrat, OK, that's what I know, but they will not be voting for a long time.I just -- I don't get it, how can anybody even think this way? Now, the Washington Times reported, "of the Somali refugees -- the program in Minnesota -- that the effort to resettle large groups of Somali refugees is having the unintended consequence of creating an enclave of immigrants with high unemployment that is both stressing the state safety net " -- tremendous problems for safety -- "and creating a rich pool of potential recruiting targets for the Islamic terror groups."Aren't we smart? We are having this problem across our refugee and immigration programs. Here are some of the examples -- I will give you a few examples, and this came out of the Senate subcommittee just recently. "The Boston bombers " -- remember those horrible, disgusting people? "The Boston bombers arrived through the political asylum process.The younger brother applied for citizenship and was naturalized on September 11, 2012. The older brother had a pending application for citizenship." And look what happened, we took them in. Look what happened, aren't we smart?The Moroccan national who came to the United States on a student visa was arrested for plotting to blow up a university in a federal courthouse. Great. A Uzbek refugee living in Idaho was arrested and charged with providing support to a terrorist organization in the form of teaching terror recruits how to build massive and very dangerous bombs. We let him in.An immigrant from Syria who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was accused by federal prosecutors of planning to go to a military base in Texas and kill three or four American soldiers, execution style if possible -- more than that, if at all possible.A college student who immigrated from Somalia who later applied and received U.S. citizenship, attempted to blow up a Christmas tree lighting ceremony in Oregon.An immigrant from Afghanistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship, and a legal permanent resident from the Philippines were convicted for plotting to join Al-Qaeda and the Taliban in order to kill as many Americans as possible -- as many as possible.An Iraqi immigrant who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for lying to federal agents about pledging allegiance to ISIS, his travels to Syria, and how many Americans he wanted to kill.Two immigrants from Pakistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship were sentenced to decades long prison sentences for plotting to detonate a bomb -- and a very big bomb, in the middle of New York City.An immigrant from Yemen who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for trying to join ISIS. He was also charged with attempting to illegally buy firearms to try to shoot as many American military personnel as possible.All right folks. So, I just say, what are we doing? What are we doing? And Hillary Clinton wants more and more to pour in. You can almost say, you know, politics aside, whether you are a Democrat, whether you are a liberal, a Republican, a conservative; what are they doing? I don't care who you are, what the hell are they doing?So we are going to have strong borders, our southern border is going to be very powerful. We are going to stop the drugs from pouring into Wisconsin and every place else.The heroin epidemic is beyond belief. In New Hampshire, a great place, that is where I realized the extent of what is going on. I met with the people of New Hampshire and they tell me, "the biggest problem they have is heroin." I said, "it can't be with the beautiful lakes and streams, it so beautiful." Right, and their biggest problems heroin. I said, "you have to be kidding, that can't be right, " and it was. Their youth is being poisoned. And then you go to Massachusetts, and you go to North Carolina, and South Carolina, and you come here, you come here -- I just left Iowa, you go to Iowa and you see the tremendous problems they have with heroin and drugs that pour in from the southern border. And look, here's the story, we are going to have strong borders. We are going to have a wall, it will be a big and powerful wall -- a big powerful wall.You know that Hillary Clinton wanted a wall a number of years ago? She wanted a wall. And the primary research, as we understand it, looking back, not that long ago, she wanted a wall. You know, walls do work folks, all you have to do is ask Israel. All you have to do is ask some of the nations that are in Europe right now that are building walls.You know, it's sort of interesting, Obama talks about, "there will be no wall." But in the White House, which he just said, which is true, they want to build essentially a wall, they want to build a fence a lot bigger, and a lot higher, and a lot stronger.You know, it is interesting. I say, "don't build that fence right, don't build that fence," because they say, "walls don't work " -- fences don't work, don't build that fence."When Hillary doesn't want to let you have your guns, she is surrounded by people like this that have more firepower on them than any human beings on earth, and I think she doesn't want to have guns. I think that all of her bodyguards and all of her Secret Service should immediately give up their weapons.OK, I mean it. They should immediately give up their weapons. They should immediately give up those weapons and if somebody comes at you with a gun, you just try to talk them out of it, I guess. You got to do some quick talking.You got to do some quick talking, Hillary. I don't think even Hillary with her phony lies and disgusting habits, I don't think Hillary could get away with that one.So we are going to have a little contrast. And I did this very quickly but it is so simple, Hillary wants to raise taxes, Trump is going to lower taxes vary substantially, the biggest tax decrease of all on business and personal.Hillary wants to significantly expand regulations. Trump is going to get rid of many, many, many regulations.Which, by the way, are stopping your businesses both small and big from succeeding, from expanding and more than anything, from starting. You can't start a business today the regulations are so onerous and horrible.Hillary wants to shut down energy production. Trump wants to expand it significantly. And we'll start paying off our debt. Hillary wants to essentially abolish the Second Amendment, take away your right. Donald Trump will protect it more so than any president that has ever served.Crooked Hillary wants far left activities judges forced over there by Bernie and by Pocahontas.Who will destroy our Constitution. I want judges who will support and defend our Constitution.As close, by the way, to Justice Scalia who was great as we could get, OK?Hillary wants to open our borders, just open them up because her special interests and donors want it that way. There are reasons, I understand that. I want to totally secure our borders. But I want people to come in. But they come in through a process and they come in legally.Hillary wants to invade foreign countries. Did you ever see where she said Donald Trump with the nuclear -- I'm -- I didn't want the war in Iraq. And I'm on record. I didn't want the war in Iraq. I didn't want all of -- what they've done. And I said, if you read Esquire Magazine from a long time ago, you'll see everything I said was exactly right. It's going to de-stabilize the Middle East.I said the meanest, toughest group of people, the people that hate the United States and its people the most, they're going to take it over. That's exactly what's happened. They're taking over the oil, they're taking over the land, they're taking over everything. I didn't want it, but I'm always being accused like the war hog they think I'm a tough guy, the war hog. Right?They think she wants to be tough with Russia. So she said well, Donald Trump likes Putin. I don't know Putin, folks. I don't know. I hope I like him, I hope he likes me because I'd love to get along with Russia. OK?Love to. But I don't know. But she goes Donald Trump, Donald Trump -- think about it -- wants to befriend Putin and other things, she said right? And I'm saying to myself what's wrong with that? That's good.I'll tell you what, you put her in the office of the president -- you know, she hates Putin and Putin hates her, right? That's what I hear. No, no -- Putin probably doesn't respect her more than anything else. But Putin hates her. But she's going to be tough. We're going to be tough with Russia -- oh, we're going to be tough, right? Let me tell you, we're in a different world today, folks. We're in a different world.But she makes it sound like I'm this tough guy that will have a temperament. You know, she uses the word -- you know who gave her the word? Her people that write the speeches, we'll say Trump with a temperament.They said Trump in a speech with tweets. I've got -- I've got between Facebook and Twitter like almost 21, 22 million people. It's an asset, it's an asset. I tweet well. But -- but she said -- she made the statement during her speech, you know, I heard it barely because I was falling asleep, you couldn't watch it.All right. So remember that one. Hillary wants to invade foreign countries. Look at Libya. Look at that. We did a great job there. You know, a spot hit on Gaddafi maybe, but I mean even that, what the hell do we get out of this? It's a disaster. Then you have Benghazi, then you have ISIS -- then you have ISIS -- then you have ISIS taking over the oil, large portions of the oil. And it's some of the finest oil in the world. And you have ISIS grabbing it.We don't know what we're doing. We have people that don't know what we're doing. We have people that militarily -- in fact, they said well, who is your military consultants? And I give them names. But they're not working now, you know they're not working now. And I said of course they're not working now, look what working now people have gotten us. Havoc, who the hell wants the people who are working now? I mean...You know, a lot of it's common sense and a lot of it's instinct and she has very bad judgment. She's got no instinct whatsoever. And when I was asked on one of the big networks about NATO, they said what do you think of NATO? Now, you know it's not like it was my primary subject in all fairness. I've only been doing this for 12 months. Now, it's actually almost 14 months, hard to believe, right?But NATO -- so I said I know enough. And sometimes knowing a little is better than knowing too much. You understand, you can't see the forest through the trees, right? So I said NATO in my opinion is obsolete because it's not covering terrorism. Obsolete for that reason and also you have many countries that aren't paying their fair share, they're not paying what they're supposed to be paying.Donald Trump is right; you have countries that aren't paying. And he said how he goes in and he talks to them. He says look, you've got to pay your bills. I have budgets -- which is true. And I have to go back to Congress and I have to say what's happening.They don't pay their bills though because people don't ask properly. And they probably say to the president or whoever may handle the country. "Sir, we owe the United States millions of dollars. We're ready to pay." Oh, have they asked for the money? No. They'll pay, OK?But I will say the commander of NATO said I was right. And then you have these people back here -- stupid people -- right here. They said Donald Trump -- they're the worst. They're the worst. They said Donald Trump -- Donald Trump doesn't like NATO. He is going to abandon NATO. That's not what I said. I said they've got to pay. They've got to pay.Now, you have to walk. You may have to walk. But they've got to pay. We're going to get in World War III for all these countries that are laughing at the stupidity of the United States, right? No, they've got to pay. And they probably will, in all fairness.Not bad. I think some of you are lying, OK? I think some of you are related to Hillary Rodham Clinton. I think some of you are lying. But we defend Japan and a man comes up, general or something, a few months ago, I remember so vividly. And he said at a news conference because they were embarrassed because I kept saying they've got to pay their way. And if they don't -- if they don't, you always have to be prepared to walk you have to do that.You know, we don't want to do that, I understand the reason. It'd be nice to have them but you know this isn't again 40 years ago. We owe $20 trillion. We're defending all these -- we defend Japan. We defend Germany. We defend Saudi Arabia. You think they have the money to pay -- how about we have military bases that we rent -- we pay rent to Saudi Arabia to protect them? No. No, think of it. Think of it, think of the stupidity. Think of the stupidity. So this general comes up, has a news conference a few months ago. And he said, "Mr. Trump doesn't understand that Japan is paying 50 percent of the cost to defend them."So a reporter goes up who I think is fair and said to me, "Mr. Trump, we'd like your comment. They say that Japan is paying 50 percent of the cost to defend." And I said why aren't they paying 100 percent? The reporter said, OK." Not a bad question. Now, here's the problem with the Hillary -- Hillary rotten Clinton. Here's the problem.Here is -- that's why she changed her last -- that's why she doesn't want to use the name anymore, because everybody was saying that. I don't know. I've been saying it.But look, here is -- here is why it doesn't work for Hillary. She saw that I said that we have to get reimbursed for our costs, at least, right?Japan, economic behemoth. Germany -- see how well they're doing -- economic behemoth. Saudi Arabia, nothing but money.They were making $1 billion a day with their high oil prices, now they're making a fortune, the same thing. Economic behemoth. Why are defending them, and why aren't we being fully reimbursed? Now, if we do that, your budget already is starting to look real good, OK. You know, you have budgets, so we losing our assurance; we have an $800 billion trade deficit, folks.We trade with companies. We have a deficit with other countries, think of it -- $800 billion a year. Trade deficit. Do we make the deals? no.With China, $505 billion trade deficit. And they cheat us because they devalue their currency all the time. Whenever it gets a little bit tough, devalue, devalue, and our companies can't compete. Right?So, here's the thing. So, Hillary says about Japan, how dare he not not stay with our allies, how dare he not do that?I will never abandon our allies, ever, ever, ever. Now, how do you negotiate when you're telling somebody will never going to leave? We may have to leave.Look, Japan has problems because you have the maniac in North Korea making missiles. But I mean, you know, so we'll get it.Now, South Korea, it is an economic behemoth. You can't buy television that is not made in South Korea, except Sony, which is made in Japan, which has sort of lost its way. Whether it is LG or Samsung. I order thousands of television sets; you can't buy them in the United States. I'd love to. Show me one company. One of the pundits said, they do make them. There's a company.And he showed me, it's a little company. What they do is, all the parts come in for -- from all over the world; they put them together, and they give you a television that doesn't work and nobody ever heard of it.And then I put it into a luxury hotel, and everybody complains, right?So, you can't say to people when you're negotiating -- because we're talking about tremendous billions and billions of dollars. You can't say to people -- you can't say to people when you're negotiating, we'll never leave you.Think of this, we're going to never leave you; we love you, we'll never leave you. Could you pay more? No, we're not going to pay anymore. You're not going to leave us. Why should we pay more?So, there's a chance we'll have to leave. And there's a chance that, you know, Japan will have to take over this monster and figure it out. We're very far away. It's very expensive.You know, we have a treaty with Japan. And if the United States is attacked, they don't have to do anything. But is Japan is attacked, we have to go in there will our full force and might, and who the hell knows what's going to happen, right?World War III, who knows what's going to happen. But if we're attacked, they don't have to do anything. You tell me, who makes these deals?It's like Sergeant Bergdahl, right? So, we trade a dirty, rotten traitor where five or maybe even six people were killed when he deserted, and we knew that they were killed and we knew that he was a traitor. We trade for five of the greatest killers, the greatest killers in the Middle East, the five people that they wanted the most. That is our deal.So, we get a traitor and they get five people that are right now, most of them, already back on the battlefields trying to kill everybody, including us.And then you watched him yesterday saying that, can you believe it? This had nothing to do with that. OK? Just a coincidence. No, no, just a coincidence -- no. You know, she is unfit to serve as president for a lot of reasons. He is unfit also. He has done so bad. He has been so incompetent. We have doubled our debt during his -- think of it. Over the years of our country -- over the years of our country, he gets in, and in eight years by the time his term is up, we will have doubled our national debt.Think of it. So, we have to win this election. This is a very important election. I do not need to do this, folks, believe me. I could be elsewhere right now, I love being with you.But I could be elsewhere. I could be -- I might be in Wisconsin, just a different location. OK? But I felt I had to do it. I want to give back. I will get back give back, I'm going to give back. I'm going to give back.I want to give back. Because our country does not win anymore.Our country does not win anymore. And it is not going to win with Crooked Hillary Clinton. Not going to win. It's not going to win. She does not know how to win. Our country is not going to win with her.We're going to be worse than we are with Obama. I mean, if you want four more years of what is going on, ISIS, all over the place, ISIS expanding.And by the way, our policeman are great, great people.And we are not going to allow our policeman to be shot down anymore. Anymore. No more. No more.So, November 8th, you have a big election. I promise you this, if I win, we're going to start winning again. We are going to win on trade, we're going to win with our military, we're going to take out ISIS, we are going to win for our veterans who have been totally mistreated.Our veterans are great. We have a great plan for the veterans. We're are going to win for our veterans, first time, maybe ever.We are going to win on trade deals. We are going to make the finest, we are going to bring our jobs back. We're not going to make it easy for these companies to leave and fire everybody. It going to be very, very expensive when they do it.Believe me, it's going to be very, very expensive. They're going to say, you know what? Maybe we'll stay Wisconsin, OK? Maybe we will stay.No, it's going to be very, very hard. We're going to have strong borders, we're going to have the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall 100 percent, 100 percent.We are going to get rid of Obamacare. We're going to get rid of Common Core, we're going to bring our education -- local. We're going to have local education.We're going to appoint great Supreme Court justices.And folks, we're going to start winning again. We're going to win at every level. We're going to win so much, you're going to get tired of winning, I'm telling you.You're going to be begging me, Mr. President -- you will send your great quarterback, right? He will come to the White House. Everybody respects him. He'll come to the White House, and he'll say, Mr. President, the people of Wisconsin, they can't stand winning so much.Could you tone it down just a little bit? I will say, I just can't do that. We are going to win more, and more and more, we're going to win at every level.But we are going to win. We are going to make America great again. We're going to make America safe again.Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.Here is the only problem she came in totally legally. All right. But you will see it in a litigation while.I said to her, no, no. Let it simmer for a little while. Let them go wild. Let it simmer and then let's have a little news conference. But they have to come in. And, by the way, we want people to come in to our country, but they have to come in legally.They have to come in legally.Now, Hillary Clinton, I just have to go because these facts are pretty obvious, but we have to go over them like one last time, because we're dealing with a person that doesn't know how to tell the truth. We are dealing with a very dishonest human being.You know, remember the word, do you remember the word short circuit? Can you imagine if I said, oh, I had a short circuit? Headlines all over the world, right? With her it's a little story.In fact, I watched that interview with Chris Wallace at "Fox." I watched it. And I saw her say lots of bad things. You know, I mean like lots of bad things, the lie on, the lie on, the lie. I mean, it got to be like multiples, right? So many things.How does she get away with it? Her greatest achievement in life will be getting away with what she got away with. That's in my opinion.I see this guy Blagojevich and I know him because he was on The Apprentice, right? The guy has got in jail for 14 years, and he just, I guess, lost an appeal today or something. He's in jail for 14 years. And Hillary Clinton is allowed to delete 33,000 emails. Think of that. Think of that.What's going on? What's going on?(CROWD CHANTING "LOCK HER UP")Sad. Sad. Sad. No, honestly, folks, it's a very sad situation.Our country has been set back. The world watched that whole situation. The world has been watching. And it's very, very bad. And I will tell you what, it speaks so badly, so badly of our country. Because everybody knows that she should not be running for the presidency right now. She should not be running. Everybody knows that.Go over a couple of the -- go over a couple of the statements and we'll do it quickly, because, you know, it looks -- and now they say the foundation. The foundation. Well, they're not going to get her with that. They're not going to do anything with the foundation, right? They're looking at the foundation. Give me a break.Hillary Clinton claimed the reason for her illegal use of private, insecure email, totally insecure was that it was more convenient to use just one device. OK? Fact, the FBI director said Hillary used several devices and numerous mobile devices. Therefore, it was a lie. False statement number two. I mean, we could go false statement number 30.Hey, wouldn't you love to see what some of those 33,000 emails said?Wouldn't you love to see it, though?I will tell you, it's very, it's very -- honestly, it's a very sad situation. Very sad situation. But how do you get away with it? You say, by the way, we won't be giving in 33,000 emails. But we subpoenaed the emails. I assume they subpoenaed them, right?We want the emails, oh, well, we deleted 33,000. Oh well, that's OK. That's fine. No problem. Can you imagine if somebody else did that? Tell Petraeus about it.False statement number two. In her testimony to Congress, Hillary Clinton said she turned over all of her work-related emails. All of them. The FBI director said Hillary failed to turn over several thousand work-related emails including some emails that were classified.What's going on? What's going on?False statement number three. In her testimony to Congress, Hillary Clinton said, there was nothing marked classified on my emails. Either sent or received. Now, you know that's false and that's been proven. And I could go over page after page after page, and it won't ever change, folks.This is going to --  ... find out that people would rather have ... substantially than have their taxes reduced, and we're just about the highest-taxed nation in the world. That tells you what's going on. All right. Hillary Clinton wants to shut down energy production. She wants to fire, get rid of all the miners. She doesn't want any miners. Any miners in here, by the way? Now, we're going to expand energy. We're going to expand all forms of energy. But we're going to expand energy, right? All right.Thank you. What a beautiful crowd. Thank you. Thank you. What a group. Thank you.So, you know, outside we have a lot of people trying to get in. And downstairs, there's a room and it is loaded with people. It's almost this size.And we're really -- we're really doing a job. So important to win the state of Pennsylvania. We're going to bring your jobs back. We're not going to let your jobs be taken from you. We are not going to let your jobs leave, folks. We're not going to let it happen. They're not going to Mexico. They're not going anywhere else. Your companies are going to stay, we're going to make them happy, we're cutting their taxes, we're cutting your taxes. Hillary...Hillary, you probably saw yesterday, she proposed one of the biggest tax increases that anybody has ever seen. We're already the highest-taxed nation just about, but in terms of industrialized nations we're the highest-taxed nation anywhere in the world, folks. And she wants to tax us more.So we're going to be lowering your taxes very substantially. We're going to be simplifying the whole deal. You won't need H&R Block anymore, believe me. You're not going to need them.Middle-income people, the taxes are coming way down, they're coming way down.And many people that aren't earning enough money, but they're out there really trying, they have no tax to pay. And it's going to be a very, very simplified procedure.So I want to thank everybody for being here. We're going to talk a little bit about security. I have something new with me tonight, pretty new anyway, it's like one-day old. It's called charts. Look.Charts. Charts. Do you believe it?So we'll get into that. But I want to introduce a few people. And we have a man who has been somebody that I've known for a long time, somebody that I've respected for a long, long time. And he's your congressman, right? Do you know your congressman? You better know your congressman.So Bill Shuster is right here someplace. Come on up here, Bill.And you know, it's interesting, I'm looking about Bill, defeat ISIS with Bill, change Washington and fix the rigged system with Bill -- and me, too, by the way. I might even be more important to this than Bill, I don't know, but he's going to help.We want to secure our country. We're going to end Obamacare. We're going to rebuild our infrastructure. We're going to do all of these things.Also, I want to introduce a woman who has been of incredible assistance to me, just incredible. The people love her. And come on up here, please. Come, come, Judy Ward, everybody. Judy?Bill, say something real quick.Thank you. Thank you, Judy. Thank you, Bill, very much.So what Bill has been saying is a little bit -- a little bit bad because we're talking about voter ID all over the country. They're approving in some cases, in some cases they're not.And you know, I went to school in Philadelphia. I went to the Wharton School of Finance in Philadelphia, so I know the state very well. My kids went to school here, two of them, and we love -- we love the state. But we have to be very, very careful about our day because we're going to have tremendous voter turnout. We're going to have unbelievable turnout. But we don't want to see people voting five times, folks. We don't want to see it.And I've heard some stories about certain parts of the state. And we have to be very careful. I don't even know, maybe you should go down and volunteer or do something. But without voter ID, there's no way you're going to be able to check it properly.We have a lot of law enforcement people working that day. We're hiring a lot of people, we're putting a lot of law enforcement. And by the way, speaking of law enforcement, do we love our police, right? We love our police.Just met your chief. He's like central casting. You can put him in a movie right now. But we love our police.And I will tell you that I just -- and I can't say it any more strongly, we're going to bring your jobs back, we're going to bring so much back. We're going to make our country great again. We're going to make America great again. But...But it's a tough process because, you know, I've been talking about a rigged system for a long time. And I'll tell you, whatever you can do. I know you're going to go out, I know this part of Pennsylvania is phenomenal.I just left Erie County. Erie has been, I don't know, I guess you've heard and Bill has heard and everybody has heard what went on there. We had 10,000 -- at least 10,000 people.And they're going to go out and vote and you're going to go out and vote. We're going to have -- I guess they call it the big T. Maybe that's lucky. Have you heard about the T? They say that T is good. I wonder what that means. But I really -- I really say, look, November 8th, such a big day, you have to turn out.We're bringing your jobs back. We're going to renegotiate trade deals. NAFTA signed by Bill Clinton is a disaster. It's a disaster.I watched Hillary Clinton yesterday. She gave her short little speech reading a teleprompter on taxes are going to be raised. Can you believe it? She's got a massive $1.3 trillion, massive increase in taxes, massive increase in regulation.Now, speaking of regulation -- before I speak of regulation, Reince, I want to thank you. Where is Reince? What a great guy. Reince, get over here. Right, what a -- he has done -- thank you very much. Reince has done such an amazing job and they portrayed him slightly inaccurately.Reince, come here for a second, please.The head of the Republican National Committee has done such a great job. We're friends, we work together, we work with a lot of other people. And I have to say, we have great unification.Now, every once in a while, you read about somebody that wants to be a rebel, they get a little free publicity for themselves. But the way we have gotten along.And I've raised -- I've put in a lot of money into the Republican National Committee, I've spent a lot of time and put in a lot of money. And I will tell you...And I'm spending money on my own campaign. You know, I went through the whole primary system, I paid for it and I'm going through this. And I'm spending for me, but we're raising a lot of money for the Republicans.And honestly, I just want to thank this man because it is not an easy job. He has done an incredible job.Thank you, man. Thank you, Reince, I appreciate it.They like to portray it a little bit differently in the press. These guys are the most dishonest people, the most.And I'll let you know -- hey, you know what? We have a great relationship, we have just about from the beginning. When I first came out, I'm not sure Reince believed too much. So, you know, I understand.But if I didn't have a good relationship, guess what? You and they would be the first to know. And I would call and I would tell them and I would tell you. But we've had a special relationship. But somebody has to call us, so they write stories.Like, for instance, they wrote the story about the founder, right? Barack Obama, the founder. Oh, that's sort of nice. Do we like it? Turn him off. We like him better the other way. What was that? They didn't pay their electric bill, I guess, right?But you know, you talk about -- Barack Obama has done such a poor job with ISIS that I have been, for numerous days, sarcastically saying that he is the founder of ISIS, right? You've heard that. And then I say they really like him a lot. Don't forget, when he took over, I think there was -- there were eight countries, seven countries. Now I understand they're in 28 countries. They're rampant all over the world, probably they're rampant here, too, because we're taking in so many people we have no idea who they are.And I say they're going to give Hillary Clinton the most improved player for letting ISIS exist. Look, if it weren't for them, you probably wouldn't even have ISIS. Of course, he calls it ISIL, ISIL. You know -- and there are reasons to call it ISIL, there actually are. Geographically, there are reasons to call it ISIL, but he's the only one.And I honestly believe he calls it ISIL to make people angry because he is the great divider. And let me tell you, folks, he is a terrible, terrible president. He has done a terrible, terrible job. He is grossly incompetent and we have to make a change. And Hillary Clinton is four more years of Obama.That's what she is. Four more years of ISIS, four more years of high taxes. Think of it, wants to raise your taxes. And I don't think you're going to put up with it. Four more years of -- well, I guess there won't be any email scandal by that time.Can you imagine? Thirty-three thousand emails wiped out. Think of it, 33,000 emails wiped out. It's a very sad thing, folks. Well, we're going to get back to it.Listen, so I just went and I visited one of your companies, a great company, an amazing family, six generations, really seven because I actually met the seventh generation, you know what that is? You know how long?So Mike McLanahan, an amazing guy. I met his son, I met his kids, his grandkids, I met everybody, I met his employees. And they're devastated because after all of these years, from 1835 to now, they're really having a hard time because of Obama and his ridiculous policies.And George Sidney works with Mike and the family, and they said things to me that I thought were incredible. And I said, "I know you don't do this for a living and you probably have never done this before, but if you could come up on the stage, we have a small group of about 9,000 people, if you could come up " -- and lots of television, look at all those people. Oh, they're so terrible. They are so dishonest.For instance -- for instance -- so, as you know, right downstairs and next door we have a room like this with just about as many people. They're not going to cover that. They're not going to show these massive crowds. They're not going to say that in the history of this building, which I guess is 15 years old, this is the biggest crowd they've ever had by far, by far. They're not going to say that. They're not going to say that.So 1835. I would like to have George and Mike just come up for a minute and explain the company quickly, how it started, where they are right now and what regulations and horrible, horrible policy has done to these great people.OK, come on up. Thank you.So Congressman Shuster, we just created two stars.And you know, it was so amazing, though. I looked and I love that stuff, I love plants, I love all of it. And I looked at the plant and you can see it's amazing, the age, but the cleanliness, the loving care that's given to the plant. I've seen plants that aren't so good. The care and the -- I looked at a piece of steel, as big a piece of steel -- I've seen big steel, but as big a piece of steel beam as I've ever seen.And I was talking to him about it. How do you get this in? How do you truck it in? What do you do? Do you splice it? What are you doing? And it was just fascinating.But I saw that, you know, so many years, so many years. And I said, so, how's business? They said it's catastrophic, it's a disaster, can't go on much longer. And I said, what's the problem? Is it regulation? Well, it's really tax and regulation.But I've found over the years, because I've met so many people, same position, incredible people. The difference here is 1835. That's a long time. That's one that's really out there. Andrew Jackson was president. You know, usually you'll hear, like, Ronald Reagan was president. That was a long time ago. But Andrew Jackson? So that was a long time ago.But when I see the love in that plant. And I met all the employees. And one of them was there 31 years. One of them there 21 years and 15 years, great people, and you know, it's just a question of time. Much smaller than it used to be, the dollar is killing them, killing them. It's not so much the dollar, it's that other countries are absolutely -- you know, what they're doing.Well, it's China and it is China, but it's others, and the devaluation of their currencies. The devaluation of their currencies is absolutely killing our companies, killing them. And we let these people get away with murder. And we're the piggy bank. Remember, they come in, they dump their product. Next is going to be steel, you watch.First of all, they're killing your coal, they're totally killing your coal, and that's one of Mike's problems also. Because the stuff they make for coal, I mean, they don't need it anymore because the mines are all being closed and the miners don't have jobs and they want to have jobs.You know, I was in West Virginia where I had a tremendous victory, I got a massive vote. And Hillary Clinton a few weeks before that, she didn't know people were listening, and she said we're going to put the mines and the miners out of business, all right?And then, do you remember, she went to West Virginia and she sat around the round table with that beautiful miner and his family -- that beautiful miner and his family, and in very, very sad terms he was explaining how they want to be miners, right? And she was trying to say she was only kidding, essentially.She was trying to -- yeah, she was lying. Hey, look, look, has anybody lied as much as Hillary Clinton? Has anybody? You look at the FBI director and you see what went on with the emails, you see how she got away with that. I think that that will go down in her career as her single greatest achievement, how she got out of that mess.But she's not out of it yet. Let's see what happens. Let's see what happens. Honestly, it's disgraceful. And you know who's more disgraceful, in my opinion? The media, because -- because they don't put her -- they don't put her to the task. They don't put her to the task. They don't do anything. They follow me and I'm on all the time. I do get much better ratings than her, in all fairness, though.But the media concept is that don't put her on because if you don't watch her, she'll be OK. Right? Right? And then she goes out and she talks that she short-circuited, short-circuited -- the mind short-circuited.She was asked a question on Fox by Chris Wallace and the answer was so bad. I was watching, which is hard to watch because it's pretty boring to be honest, but she said she's short-circuited. And I said to myself, man, that's a bad one, oh, she's going to have problems. Wait until you see tomorrow. Nothing. What do you see the next day? Nothing.And I said to a friend of mine, can you imagine if I said that about myself? I would be all over every paper anywhere in the world, right?It's like I told you about, you know, sarcastically -- I mean, you ought to see these news organizations yesterday when I said Obama, right? Did you see that? That Obama is the founder of ISIS, he's the MVP, they're going to be giving him the MVP award and she's right there next to him. And you had to see.And they left the MVP stuff out because then you'd know. But you had to hear, did he mean it? What does it mean? We have nine panelists tonight...We have one -- we have one panelist representing Donald Trump, we have eight panelists plus the moderator and plus another few moderators. Come on, folks, get in here. It is so ridiculous what's going on, the pile-on.A man that's been doing this for 45 years said it's the single- greatest pile-on of a candidate that he's ever seen. Every day, every single day, story after story after story. And I think they're going to be good stories.You know, I do good work. I've built one of the great companies of this country. I built this -- I did one of the great jobs, some of the great assets in the world. Very low debt, tremendous cash flow, that's why I can do this stuff, believe me.You think it's cheap? It's not cheap.And by the way, in the primaries, I spent about $51 million, something like that, and -- which believe it or not was about the lowest amount of money for the majors, right? And I came in first in a landslide. Others spent much more than that, one spent many times more than that and came in toward the bottom of the pack.And I said to myself, isn't that what you want for a president, right? Don't you want -- you spend the least and you come in first.Spend the least and come in first, wouldn't that be nice? And that's what we have to do. That's what we have to do.But Hillary Clinton will be so bad for our country, will be so bad for our country. And here's the thing, the press doesn't go after her. So she hasn't had a news conference in approximately -- in fact, her statement and a couple of other bad statements were made -- oh, don't worry about it. Go home. Go home. Like, go home.So she's going home to mommy. Go home to mommy.Go home. Go home. And you know the nice part? Her mother is voting for Donald Trump. It's great.So it's an amazing thing that's happening. But they don't show her. So she hasn't had a news conference in, what, 255 days, something like that. The little one that she had, she tried to pretend. They were all her friends and they were asking -- and she gave such bad answers.But I just said, man, look at these answers. Wow. I don't want anybody to be hurt, but I said she's really going to be hurt by those answers. And what happened? Nothing. Although now, I will tell you, it was a little delayed reflex, but short-circuit really is catching on now very belatedly, because we don't want a president that's going to short-circuit. We have bigger problems than that. We have big problems in this country, we don't need that.So she wants to raise your taxes; I'm going to lower your taxes. She wants to raise your regulations, and you heard Mike and George talking about regulations, they're putting them out of business. And we're going to do such a massive decrease of regulation so that our small businesses can thrive and grow and start. Can't even start a small business.So we have -- we have lots of things that we're going to be working on. But I'll tell you, big is we're going to bring our companies back, big.And for this area, honestly, we've got to bring our companies back. Our companies have gone to Mexico. I tell it now, for the last month I tell this. This is so inexpensive, because normally, you'd go out, you'd hire a big firm or you'd hire the Harvard guys or the Wharton guys and they'd charge you a lot of money, they do a report and they come back in six months, they'd charge you a million dollars. And you wouldn't know anything. Most of the reports you'd just take them and throw them.But a friend of mine builds plants, right? And he's just about the biggest in the world, maybe he is the biggest in the world, but he builds massive plants. And I said to him, how are you doing? He said really well. I said, where?He said, "Donald, you have to see what we're doing in Mexico. We are building some of the great plants anywhere in the world, car plants, computer plants, anything." I said, really? He said it's the eighth wonder of the world, Mexico. And he wants to build here. He's an American guy, he's a U.S. guy, he wants to build here.So I said, how's the United States doing? He goes just like this, meh. How stupid are we? How stupid are we to allow this? Our companies are moving to Mexico. As we talk today, and I said this before in Erie because we had a crowd that was massive in Erie -- and somebody said it's, like, a Democrat area. I don't think so, I'll tell you I don't think so. We had this massive crowd of people.But I said it to them. We can't let our companies go without consequence. We can't let our companies be stripped out of our country, open up a plant somewhere because of a NAFTA agreement that was signed by Bill Clinton, with a wife that won't be -- she won't be able to do a damn thing about it.There have to be consequences when they leave and they fire all their people. And the consequences when they make their product and they want to sell it through what will soon be a very, very strong, powerful border, they're going to pay a 35 percent tax on that product. And they're not going to leave, they won't leave.Don't worry about it, folks. They won't be leaving. They won't be leaving.So in this area, because it's been hit so hard and the coal has been hit so hard -- you know, in Erie they have General Electric and they're stopping with the big locomotives. It's way down because the coal is way down. It's way, way down, tremendous unemployment.Well, all of that's going to stop. So we're going to open our minds, we're going to work with our steelworkers and our miners and all of our people.And you know, look, my whole theme of what we're doing is very simple. He's got it on his cap. There are hundreds of people that have it on their caps. It's called make America great again. America First, make America great again.Now, believe me, the jobs are coming back, folks. That's going to be so easy.A friend of mine said, why didn't somebody else think of that? And honestly, they don't think of it because they're politicians. And other than Bill, who would understand that immediately, right? Bill has no doubt, and Judy, and he is, Bill is a business guy. But these are politicians that, number one, are controlled by special interests and lobbyists, right, and donors. And a lot of times they don't want it because they own companies that want to move across the border, there are a lot of reasons.A friend of mine recently said, Donald, how could a certain deal have been made a month ago? He said it doesn't make sense, it's so bad for the country. He said, boy, those politicians are stupid. I said, no, they're not stupid. They're getting massive campaign contributions. They're getting massive donations.Isn't it nice that I do what I do and I just spend a lot of money? I'll tell you, I hope I win. I'm going to feel very, very foolish if I don't win.But when they call me because they need help in moving their company out of the United States and firing a lot of people, folks, I couldn't care less. They didn't give me anything, I couldn't care less.We're going to keep our companies and we're going to bring new jobs back in. And they're going to come roaring back in with a new tax on business. They're going to come roaring back in. And they're coming in to this area. And we're going to cut regulations and our favorite, unbelievably old company is going to thrive again, hopefully better than it's ever been since Andrew Jackson. OK?So one of the things that we have to do, and there's so many, one of the things we have to do, Supreme Court justices, right? The new president is going to have probably -- next president, probably more picks of Supreme Court justices.We lost a great one with Judge Scalia, lost a great one, we lost a great one, a great guy. I met him a couple of times, what a great, great guy, very conservative principles, very smart. And he wasn't -- and that wasn't supposed to happen, that was supposed to be another 10 years, 15 years.So we have one before we start. We could have four, we could even have five; probably we'll have three.But when I watch these people, never Trump, those poor, poor, sad people. They've been saying never Trump now for two years. Never Trump, never Trump. Trump gets more votes than anybody in the history of the Republican Party, and then never Trump, never Trump, never Trump.I don't get it. I don't get it. Never Trump. I mean, we won massive numbers of states, far more than -- there wasn't even a second-place finisher, frankly. So we won these massive numbers of states. We won almost 14 million votes, and that's with 17 people, don't forget.When Ronald Reagan ran -- great guy, by the way -- when Ronald Reagan ran and when others that did well ran, they're running against two and three people and four people. I ran against 17 people and got more votes. Think of what that means. We got more votes than anybody.We brought in new votes into the Republican Party. That's all not being registered in different forms of media. They're not talking about the fact that the Republican primaries were up 60 percent and the Democrats were down 20 percent.So with all the Bernie stuff -- and we like Bernie. Look, Bernie, the system was rigged. And we're going to watch Pennsylvania very quickly. We're going to watch Pennsylvania. Go down to certain areas and watch and study and make sure other people don't come in and vote five times. Because if you do that -- and I know you're all voting.Is everybody here voting?If you do that, if you do that, we're not going to lose. The only way we could lose, in my opinion, I really mean this, Pennsylvania is if cheating goes on, I really believe it.Because I looked at Erie and it was the same thing as this. And I've been all over the state and I know the state well, I know the state well.But let me just tell you, I looked all over Pennsylvania and I'm studying it. And we have some great people here, some great leaders here of the Republican Party and they're very concerned about that. And that's the way we can lose the state. And we have to call up law enforcement and we have to have the sheriffs and the police chiefs and everybody watching because if we get cheated out of this election, if we get cheated out of a win in Pennsylvania, which is such a vital state, especially when I know what's happening here, folks, I know.She can't beat what's happening here. The only way they can beat it, in my opinion, and I mean this 100 percent, if in certain sections of the state they cheat. OK?So I hope you people can sort of not just vote on the 8th, go around and look and watch other polling places and make sure that it's a hundred percent fine. Because without voter identification, which is shocking, shocking that you don't have it -- many states it gets approved and some states they don't get approved.And I have still -- I'm supposed to be a smart person -- I have still -- I have yet to understand how you cannot approve voter identification, at least in some form, right?So we're going to do things that are going to be amazing, I really believe, on November 8th.We're doing well in Florida, we're doing well in Ohio. I think we're going to do well in Virginia -- we're not doing as well there now, but I actually think we're doing really well, I just don't think they're giving us the credit. We're still pretty close.But we're doing really well in certain states that no other Republican would even waste their time with. We're doing well in lots of different -- we're doing well in Michigan. Hey, look, I've been talking about Michigan being ripped off with their car companies moving to Mexico, for two years, OK? They don't talk. Hillary doesn't know about it.Hillary, aye, aye, aye.Four more years of Obama, but worse, and run by the machine and total dishonesty, total dishonesty. I mean, again, look at the emails. Remember, 33,000 emails, 33,000 emails and it's OK, it's all right.Don't forget. Well, maybe it is OK. No, it probably is. 33,000 -- she needed a few for the wedding and she needed some for yoga class, right? So I figure two for yoga class, five for the wedding, where are the rest? Boy, oh, boy, would I like to see.Hey, can you imagine what's on those emails? Now, they say that NSA has those emails. You know that, right? They say they have them. They say NSA has everybody's emails, but they say that NSA has the emails. So if they have the emails, if they have the emails, I think maybe should they give them out? I don't know -- I don't know, I don't know what the law is.But they say that they would have the emails. I guess somebody came out from NSA and they said we have everybody's emails. So I don't think they tried too hard. Do you, folks? I don't think they tried. We'll see what happens.They're great people. But 16,500 endorsed me.Sheriff Joe Arpaio from Arizona, like, a great man. He's been on the borders for 50 years. I can't imagine. And he's tough and he's smart and he's strong and he's a good person. I'll tell you -- I've gotten to know him -- thank you -- I've gotten to know him very well. He's a good person. But he knows what's good and he knows what's fair and he endorsed me and that was a great honor. OK?And a lot of other people. By the way, a lot of other people, but on the border.So here's the story. So many people when I walked in, would you read The Snake tonight? I don't know, have you heard The Snake, anybody? Has anybody heard it? Raise your hand if you've heard it. Not that many, it's great.Is it OK for the ones that have heard it if I read it? Is that OK?Written by the great Al Wilson years ago. So we need a strong border because drugs are pouring across, crime is pouring across. It's rampant, rampant.And when I originally ran, when I made my first statement, I talked about illegal immigration. I talked about problems that we have. It turned out to be true -- it turned out to be true. So we have problems where our military is depleted; we have to rebuild it. We have problems where our vets aren't being taken care of; we have to take care of our vets.We have massive problems with education, and we have to end Common Core, and we have to bring education local.We have to repeal and replace Obamacare, we have to do it.We have to save our Second Amendment.The NRA, by the way, endorsed me early. I think it was the earliest endorsement they've ever given. But the NRA endorsed me, terrific people. They love this country, let me tell you. They love this country.And you know, it's interesting. San Bernardino, they walk in, boom, boom, boom, Paris, Orlando, so many places.Now, Paris actually has among the toughest gun laws anywhere in the world. You don't have guns, unless you're a bad guy you have guns because then you're allowed to walk in with guns. Right? But you obey the law, they don't have guns. Toughest gun laws they say in the world, who knows?So these thugs, these horrible, horrible -- I was going to say human beings, but I would say these horrible animals walk in to various places, all fairly close together, and they just start, boom, boom, boom, you get over here, boom, boom, boom, 130 killed. Many, many, hundreds, people don't know this, hundreds in the hospitals never really to recover. I mean, some are so badly wounded.Same thing, San Bernardino, 14 people killed, many, many people still in the hospital. I mean, their lives can never be the same.And I'm just saying, if we had people in that room, if we had some people in any of those rooms with a gun right around here...... where when they see it's going to happen, the bullets start flying in the opposite direction.You really would have had a whole different story. And you know, if they knew that you had guns where the bullets are going to go in the opposite direction, they'd probably say let's take a pass, OK, let's not even go in.So we're allowing -- we're allowing -- tremendous numbers of people into our country from Syria, from parts of the massive terrorist world. We have no idea who they are. Law enforcement says there's no way really to vet them. There's no real paperwork, there's a lot of false paperwork.So I read this today and so many people standing outside they heard me, they said, would you do it again? I said I'll do it again. And it's called The Snake. And it represents, in my mind, what's going to happen in our country. Because this is like the Trojan horse, we're allowing people in.And I have a bigger heart, I have a big heart, I want to take care of people. I want to build safe zones in Syria, I want to have the Gulf states pay for it. We don't have -- hey, we're at $20 trillion, OK, folks? It's time we stop. We've spent probably $4 to $5 trillion in the Middle East. You know what we have? Nothing, nothing.If we would have done nothing in the Middle East, we would have been unbelievable. So we've spent all of this money in the Middle East, we have nothing for it.So here's the story. I read this, I immediately thought of our border, OK, immediately. And I said to myself, guess what, I'm going to put this in the form of a poem and I'm going to read it when I'm of that mind. Because you see what's happening, you see what's happening in Germany, you see what's happening in France. Look at France, look at what's going on in France with Nice, with all of the things going on in France.I have friends that won't go there anymore. I have a friend, he thinks Paris, the city of lights, he thinks it's the most beautiful city. I said, how are you doing, did you go to Paris yet this year? I don't go to Paris anymore, France is no longer France.How stupid are we? How stupid are we? When you see what's going on, how stupid are we?So we're letting these people in, right? This is a tremendous mistake. Look at what one person did, one sicko, wacko whose father was sitting behind Hillary Rodham Clinton with a big, red hat on and a big smile on his face. You see that? Was that a smile? He's sitting behind her.And as soon as I saw that and I heard he was there because he came over, we think it's him, and he had a red hat, I said, oh, no, don't tell me, but it wasn't. It was not make America great again hat. But you see this guy sitting back there. And his son had just killed so many people in Orlando.And here's the story, so I read this, and a lot of people love it. And think of it as what happens if we're not smart, tough and vigilant with our borders, with people coming in that we don't know about them, that we don't know who they are, where they come from, especially when you have a track record of violence all over the world. What the hell do we need it for?We'll build safe havens. But what the -- what are we doing?So are you ready, folks?Called The Snake. On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tenderhearted woman saw a poor, half-frozen snake. His pretty-colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh well, she cried, I'll take you in and I'll take care of you.Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in, for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the broken snake.She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk, then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now, she hurried home from work that night, as soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken had been totally revived.Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in, for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the broken snake.Now, she clutched him to her bosom, you're so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now, you certainly might have died. Now she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite.Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in, for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the vicious snake.I saved you, cried that woman, and you've bit me, heavens, why? You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die. Oh, shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in.Be careful, folks. Be careful, Altoona. People put all over the country, we don't even know where the hell they're being put. You know that, right? Your government officials don't even know, many of them, don't even know. Your governors don't know, your senators don't know, you don't even know.This could be the great Trojan horse. This could replace the story of the Trojan horse, OK?So I brought something special for you. We're going to go quickly because I want to get the hell out of here, I want to go home.But I'm only leaving if you promise -- if you promise -- than on November 8th you're going to vote for Trump and we're going to make America great again.All right. You ready? All right. Congratulations, Pennsylvania. Great job, great job.Great job, Governor Ridge. Great job.The Clinton's legacy: One in three manufacturing jobs in Pennsylvania has been lost since NAFTA. Would you say that's something to be proud of? I don't think so.One in three lost since NAFTA. Not too good, right?I love these boards. Look, here's a beauty -- here's a beauty. I just -- I love charts, I love charts. And they always said, you know, it's too tough putting a screen up, you've got to get guys, it costs too much money -- I don't like to spend money. This is a cheap version of a screen, OK? It's just as good, but you need good, strong hands.So, look, you ready? So there it is.So U.S. home ownership, right? Lowest in 51 years, right? So the American dream, folks, the American dream, there it is, the American dream.Here's Obama, here's where we are right now. Home ownership, the American dream is to have a house, to own a house. Here's where we are right now, folks. Wow, wow. Great -- great job -- great job, Obama.All right, here's the snake. The snake, do we like the snake? No I don't like the snake.So Syrian refugees admitted to the United States, monthly totals since October of 2015. Look, look, how stupid are we, folks? How stupid are we, folks?Look at that. And Hillary Clinton, again, wants 550 percent more. Not going to happen. Not going to happen. You better get out there and vote.Here's another beauty. Number one, ready? Number and percent of immigrants in the United States 1900 to 2010, plus Census Bureau projections. Look at this, OK? Go ahead, go ahead. A lot of them coming in from Syria, from places that are rough places, OK, rough places. OK.So here's something. So I spent a lot of money on my campaign, I continue to spend a lot of money on my campaign, that's good. And I'm not looking -- you know, I'm raising a lot of money for Reince and for the whole Republican Party. A lot of people don't understand that, but that's OK. But I've raised a lot of money.We took in $51 million in June, we took in 82, I think, million dollars last month.And I don't think they even know I'm doing -- I'll be honest. Some of these people, they're saying, like, well, we don't know if we like Donald Trump. I'm raising so much money for these people. Oh, but that's OK. They'll figure it out soon. I'm telling you, soon they're going to figure it out.And the other ones, you know, when you hear never Trump. How about never Trump? Think of this -- think of this, never Trump, never Trump. I told you, we got the highest vote in history, but never Trump. Supreme Court justice -- so it's not me, it's going to be Hillary.If it's Hillary, you're going to have super-left-leaning judges. You're going to have a country that's destroyed probably forever. It would be 75 years, but probably forever, OK? How could they not say Trump? But they defeated and they were defeated. They've been saying for so long never Trump, years, never Trump, and they're embarrassed.So we understand. But you know what? It doesn't matter. Because if we win, it doesn't make any difference. But I'll tell you what, I'm going to say never them, never...So, you see what I did here? Look. So in one way, I feel a little foolish, to be honest. I showed this yesterday. I feel a little bit foolish. Hillary, Hillary -- these are hedge funders. Now, I know the hedge funders, many of them. Some are semi-friends of mine, some are sort of friends of mine, tough guys, tough people, tough women in a couple of cases, not too many, but tough, tough people, smart.And they give her millions and millions of dollars. They're not doing that for their health. They're not doing that for the good of the country, folks. This I can tell you. These are tough people. Frankly, they're people that I'd like negotiating for, let's say, against China. You know, we have all of these political hacks negotiating our deals. But I have some, like Carl Icahn, I have some of the great people on my side, some of the greatest businessmen in the world, and they love it because they want great trade deals and we're going to renegotiate our trade deals.And Hillary Clinton said, after hearing me yesterday, we are going to renegotiate, the other day, we are going to renegotiate our trade deals. She never even thought of it before. And she can't do it because her donors won't allow her to do it, folks, a hundred percent.Do I know this business, or what? Hey, I used to be a donor, now I'm a donor to myself for my own campaign.And you think it's easy? It takes guts to run for president, don't kid yourself.So look at this one. So this is a campaign contributions from hedge funders, these are the tough ones, hedge fund guys, hedge fund people. Hillary Clinton, Crooked Hillary, $48,500,000; Trump, $19,000. I don't even know who it is.And look, they had a terrible picture of Hillary, which I felt was unfair. I said don't do that, get the best picture you can find. And I'll tell you what, honestly, I feel much better about it. No, they had this terrible picture, it was unfair. I'm a very fair person.$48,500,000 against $19,000 -- I'm going to give the $19,000 back, it's ridiculous. I don't know who the...This is just a list of some of the countries, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Oman, Kuwait, Bahrain, Algeria, Qatar. These are millions of dollars given to Hillary Clinton. You think she maybe will do what they want her to do?So here's your total national debt, total national debt, it's doubled under Obama, will more than double by the time he gets out.And you know the bad thing -- I was thinking about it today. Yes, it's tough, but we'll be at $20 trillion. Nobody even knows what that is. We're going to be at $20 trillion. But here's the thing. If it doubled, Bill, as an example, if it doubled and our roads were in great shape and our schools and our hospitals and everything was good, right, if our bridges and tunnels were beautiful and new and fresh -- 50 percent of our bridges are in trouble, our tunnels are a mess.You ever go through these tunnels? The tiles are falling off the roof, right? You know, as a builder it's disgusting to me. You go through these tunnels and you say, I wonder, were people injured? You see tiles. You know, they used to be beautiful, white tiles, right? And now you'll see big openings where patches have fallen off.I say, there are cars driving 40, 50 miles an hour through. I mean, if those tiles fall and the people get killed, right? Now, I don't know, I don't read about it. But you look at our tunnels, they're disgusting, they're dirty, there's soot, the tiles are all off. The roads are in bad shape.So if you had $20 trillion and everything was tippy-top -- I like tippy-top. Everyone who goes to my buildings and my clubs, they're tippy-top, right? Tippy-top. We're opening up a hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue over a year ahead of schedule and way under budget, and it's the best. And it's better than we projected. It's going to be one of the great hotels of the world.Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C. So the way I look at it, I'm going to get to Pennsylvania Avenue one way or the other, I don't care, I don't care, I don't care.One way or the other. But that hotel is under budget and ahead of schedule by more than a year. Wouldn't it be nice?You know, I was recently traveling to -- I won't mention the location because they're incredible people -- but I was in an area where they have a hospital, a veterans hospital that's under construction. I said, how's it doing? Oh, Mr. Trump, sir, it's a disaster. Why is it a disaster? It's not that big, why is it a disaster? Well, we have a $1.2 billion -- billion -- cost overrun. I said, a billion dollars? How can you have a billion, how can you have $1.2 billion? Do you think those contractors and those subcontractors are making a couple of bucks on that, folks?How stupid are we to let this happen? How stupid are we? $1.2 billion for a hospital. That should be a tiny fraction of that to build it, to build it.So here's the story, folks. We have to get out on November 8th. I'm going to come back. I'm going to be in Pennsylvania a lot. I'll come back again and visit you.But you've got to get out and vote. You've got to get out and vote. And I promise you we're going to do such a great job, you're going to be so proud of your country. You're going to be so proud -- less importantly, but you're going to be so proud of your president.I'm a messenger. I'm a messenger for common sense. I'm a messenger for doing what we all know has to be done. But we don't win anymore, but we're going to start winning again. We're going to win with our military, which I said before is very, very depleted. But we're going to build it up and we're going to make it strong and we're going to make it powerful. And hopefully, we're not going to use it other than to knock the hell out of ISIS. We have no choice.And we're going to take care of our vets, our great vets. And they have not been taken care of. And we're going to have strong borders, and by the way, we're going to build the wall and we're going to stop drugs from coming in.And Mexico is going to pay for the wall.And we're going to save our Second Amendment.And we're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.And we're going to make the greatest trade deals we've ever made. Jobs are going to come flowing back. We're not going to let our companies go. We're going to be the smart people. And we're going to win and win and win, and we're going to win so much that the people in this room are going to call up their congressmen and say, congressmen, we cannot stand it, our president is winning too much, we're not used to it. Please, please, Mr. Congressman, please go see the president and talk to him.And I'm going to say, when he comes into Washington, Bill, I'm sorry, I can't do that. Actually, I want to win much more.We're going to win so much. We're going to win at every single level. We're going to make America First, and we're going to make America great again.Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you very much.It's great to be with you this afternoon. And today we begin a conversation about how to make America safe again. In the 20th century the United States has defeated fascism, Nazism and communism. Now a different threat challenges our world. Radical Islamic terrorism. This summer there's been an ISIS attack launched outside the war zones of the Middle East -- hard to believe -- every 84 hours.Here in America we have seen one brutal attack after another. Thirteen were murdered and 38 wounded in the assault on Fort Hood. The Boston Marathon bombing wounded and maimed 264 people, and ultimately left five dead, including two of our great police officers. In Chattanooga, Tennessee, five unarmed Marines -- unbelievable people, by the way -- were shot and killed in a military recruiting center. Last December, 14 innocent Americans were gunned down at an office party in San Bernardino. Another 22 were very gravely injured. In June 49 Americans were executed at the Pulse night club in Orlando. Another 53 were badly injured. It was the worst mass shooting in our history and the attack by far the worst on the LGBTQ community. And I'll tell you what. We can never, ever allow this to happen again.In Europe -- thank you -- in Europe we have seen the same carnage and bloodshed afflicted upon our closest allies. In January of 2015 a French satirical newspaper, Charlie Hebdo, was attacked for publishing cartoons of the prophet Mohammed. Twelve were killed, including two police officers, and 11 were wounded. Two days later, four were murdered in a Jewish delicatessen. In November of 2015 terrorist went on a shooting rampage in Paris that slaughtered 130 people, and wounded another 368 people, some in very, very, very bad shape today.France is suffering gravely. And the tourism industry is being massively affected in the most negative way. In March of this year terrorists detonated a bomb in Brussels airport killing 32 and injuring 340 people. This July in the South of France an Islamic terrorist turned his truck into an instrument of mass murder, plowing down and killing 85 men, women and children and wounding 308 people.Terrible. Among the dead were two Americans, a Texas father and his 11-year-old son. A few weeks ago in Germany a refugee armed with an axe wounded 5 people in a gruesome train attack. Only days ago an ISIS killer invaded a Christian Church in Normandy, France forced an 85-year-old priest to his knees. A priest who was beloved, who was beloved; before cutting his throat and just unthinkable other things.Overseas ISIS has carried out an absolute atrocity and one after another. Children slaughtered, girls sold into slavery, men and women burned alive, crucifixions, beheadings, and drownings, ethnic minorities targeted for mass execution. Holy sites desecrated. Christians driven from their homes and hunted for extermination. ISIS rounding up what it calls "Nation of the Cross," "Nation of the Cross" in a campaign of absolute and total genocide.We cannot let this evil continue.Thank you. Thank you.Nor can we let the hateful ideology of radical Islam, it's oppression of women, gays, children and non-believers be allowed to reside or spread within our own countries.We will defeat radical Islamic terrorism just as we have defeated every threat we've faced at every age and before. But we will not, we will not, remember this, defeat it with closed eyes or silenced voices. We have a president that doesn't want to say the words.Anyone who cannot name our enemy is not fit to lead our country.Anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, oppression and violence of radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our president.The rise of ISIS is the direct result of policy decisions made by President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton. Let's look back at the Middle East at the very beginning of 2009 before the Obama-Clinton administration took over. Libya was stable. Syria was under control. Egypt was ruled by a secular president and an ally of the United States.Iraq was experiencing a reduction in violence. The group that would become what we now call ISIS was close to being extinguished. Iran was being choked off by economic sanctions.Fast forward to today. What we have -- and think of this -- and the decisions made by the Obama/Clinton group have been absolutely disastrous.Libya is in ruins. Our ambassador and three other really brave Americans are dead. And ISIS has gained a new base of operations.Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war. ISIS controls large portions of territory. A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and the United States.In Egypt, terrorists have gained a foothold in the Sinai desert near the Suez Canal, one of the most essential waterways of the world. Iraq is in chaos. And ISIS is on the loose. ISIS has spread across the Middle East and into the West.In 2014, ISIS was operating in seven nations. They were in seven nations. Terrible, but that's what it was.Today they're fully operational in 18 countries with aspiring branches in six more for a total of 24. And many believe that number is actually 28 to 30 countries. They don't even know.The situation is likely worse than the public has any idea. A new congressional report reveals that the Administration has downplayed the growth of ISIS with 40 percent of analysts saying they had experience efforts to manipulate their findings in trying to make it look much better than it is. It's bad.At the same time, ISIS is trying to infiltrate refugee flows into Europe and to the United States. Iran, the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, is not flush with $150 billion in cash released by the United States. Plus if you remember from two weeks ago, another $400 million in actual cash that was obviously used for ransom.Worst of all, the nuclear deal puts Iran, the number one state sponsor of radical Islamic terrorism, on a path to nuclear weapons. In short, the Obama/ Clinton foreign policy has unleashed ISIS, destabilized the Middle East, and put the nation of Iran, which chants, "death to America", in a dominant position of regional power and in fact aspiring a dominant world power.It all began in 2009 with what has become known as President Obama's global apology tour. We all remember. We all remember.In a series of speeches, President Obama described America as arrogant, dismissive, derisive, and a colonial power. He was describing us.He informed other countries that he would be speaking up about America's past errors. He pledged that we would no longer be a senior partner that sought to dictate our terms. He lectured CIA officers of the need to acknowledge their mistakes, and described Guantanamo Bay as a rallying cry for our enemies.Perhaps no speech was more misguided than President Obama's speech to the Muslim world, delivered in Cairo, Egypt, 2009. I remember it well.In winning the Cold War, President Ronald Reagan repeatedly touted the superiority of freedom over communism and called the USSR the Evil Empire. Yet when President Obama delivered his address in Cairo, no such moral courage could be found or would be found. Instead of condemning the oppression of women and gays in many Muslim nations, and the systematic violations of human rights, or the financing of global terrorism, President Obama tried to draw an equivalency between our human rights record -- and remember this, our human rights -- and theirs. The records are unbelievable and unmistakable.His naive words were followed by even more naive actions. The failure to establish a new status of forces agreement in Iraq and the election-driven timetable for withdrawal surrendered our gains in that country and led directly to the rise of ISIS without question.The failures in Iraq were compounded by Hillary Clinton's disaster, total disaster, in Libya. President Obama has since said that he regrets, and really regrets, Libya and the mistake he made. He considers it his worst mistake. According to then-Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, the invasion of Libya was nearly a split decision, but Hillary Clinton's forceful advocacy for the intervention was the deciding factor. That's why we went in.With one episode of bad judgment after another, Hillary Clinton's policies launched ISIS onto the world stage. Yet, as she threw the Middle East into violent turmoil, things turned out really to be not so hot for our world and our country. The Middle East in particular. The Clintons made almost $60,000 in gross income while she was Secretary of State. It is unbelievable. Incident after incident proves again and again Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment -- as said by Bernie Sanders -- stability and temperament and the moral character to lead our nation.It is now time for a new approach. Our current strategy of nation-building and regime-change is a proven, absolute failure. We have created the vacuums that allow terrorism to grow and thrive. I was an opponent of the Iraq War from the beginning. A major difference between me and my opponent. Though I was a private citizen whose personal opinions on such matters were really not sought, I nonetheless publicly expressed my private doubts about the invasion. I was against, believe me.Three months before the invasion I said in an interview with Neil Cavuto to whom I offer my best wishes for a speedy recovery, that "perhaps we shouldn't be doing it yet. And that the economy is a much bigger problem."In August of 2004, very early, right after the conflict, I made a detailed statement to Esquire Magazine in an interview. Here's the quote in full. "Look at the war in Iraq and the mess we're in. I would never have handled it that way." This was right after the invasion. "Does anybody really believe that Iraq is going to be a wonderful democracy where people are going to run down to the voting box and gently put in their ballot and the winner is happily going to go and step up and lead the country?" Come on.I then continued, "Two minutes after we leave there's going to be a revolution and the meanest, toughest, smartest most viscous guy, in this case, guy, will take over. And he'll have weapons of mass destruction which Saddam Hussein did not have. What was the purpose of this whole thing? Hundreds and hundreds of young people killed. And what about the people coming back with no arms and no legs? Not to mention, in all fairness, the other side. The tremendous damage done. All those Iraqi kids who've been blown to pieces. And it turns out that all of the reasons for the war were blatantly wrong. All of this death and destruction for nothing."So I've been clear for a long time that we should not have gone in. But I have been just as clear in saying what a catastrophic mistake Hillary Clinton and President Obama made with the reckless way in which they pulled out.After we had made those hard fought sacrifices and gains we should have never made such a sudden withdrawal on a timetable advertised to our enemies. They said, we're moving out, here's our time, here's our date. Who would do this but an incompetent president?Al-Qaeda in Iraq had been decimated. And Obama and Clinton gave it new life and allowed it to spread all across the world. By that same token President Obama and Hillary Clinton should have never attempted to build a democracy in Libya, to push for immediate regime change in Syria or to support the overthrow of Mubarak in Egypt.One more point on this. I have long said that we should have kept the oil in Iraq.I said it over and over and over again. Another area where my judgment has been proven correct. I just said it so many times, virtually every time I was interviewed, keep the oil, keep the oil. According to CNN, ISIS made as much as $500,000 in oil sales in 2014 alone. That's before they really got started. Fueling and funding its reign of terror. If we had controlled the oil like I said we should, we could have prevented the rise of ISIS in Iraq, both by cutting off a major source of funding and through the presence of U.S. forces necessary to safeguard the oil and vital infrastructure products necessary for us to have the oil.I was saying this constantly and consistently to whomever would listen. I said, "Keep the oil. Keep the oil. Keep the oil. Don't let somebody else get it."If they had listened to me then we would have had the economic benefits of the oil which I wanted to use to help take care of the wounded soldiers and families of those who died in the war.In addition to which thousands of lives would have been saved. This proposal by it's very nature would have left soldiers in place of our assets. We would have had soldiers there guarding this valuable supply of oil. In the old days, when we won a war, to the victor belonged the spoils.Instead, all we got from Iraq and our ventures in the Middle East, was death, destruction and tremendous financial loss. But it's time to put the mistakes of the past behind us and chart a new course.If I become president, the era of nation-building will be brought to a very swift and decisive end.Thank you. Our new approach -- which must be shared by both parties in America, by our allies overseas and by our friends in the Middle East -- must be to halt the spread of radical Islam. All actions should be oriented around this goal and any country which shares this goal will be our ally. Very important. Some don't share this goal. We cannot always choose our friends but we can never fail to recognize our enemies.As president, I will call for an international conference focused on this goal. We will work side by side with our friends in the Middle East, including our greatest ally Israel.We will partner with King Abdullah of Jordan and the president of Egypt, President Sisi, and all others who recognize this ideology of death that must be extinguished.We will also work very closely with NATO on this new mission. I had previously said that NATO was obsolete because it failed to deal adequately with terrorism. Since my comments, they have changed their policy and now have a new division focused on terror threats.Very good. Very, very good.I also believe that we could find common ground with Russia in a fight against ISIS. Wouldn't that be a good thing? Wouldn't that be a good thing?They, too, have much at stake in the outcome in Syria, and have had their own battles with Islamic terrorism just as bad as ours. They have a big, big problem in Russia with ISIS.My administration will aggressively pursue joint and coalition military operations to crush and destroy ISIS. International cooperation to cut off their funding, expanded intelligence sharing, and cyber warfare to disrupt and disable their propaganda and recruiting. Their recruiting is taking place right now, and they're setting records. It's got to be stopped.We cannot allow the internet to be used as a recruiting tool and for other purposes by our enemy. We must shut down their access to this form of communication, and we must do it immediately -- immediately.Unlike Hillary Clinton, who has risked so many lives with her careless of handling of sensitive information, my administration will not telegram exactly military plans and what they are.And by the way, what's happened with her 33,000 emails is an absolute disgrace to the United States of America.The fight will not be limited to ISIS. We will decimate Al- Qaeda. And we will seek to starve funding for Iran-backed Hamas and Hezbollah. So important. We can use existing U.N. Security Council resolutions to apply new and even stronger sanctions. Military, cyber and financial warfare will all be necessary to dismantle Islamic terrorism.But we must use ideological warfare as well. Very important. And they use it on us, better than we have ever even thought of using it on them. But that will change. Just as we won, just as we won the Cold War in part by exposing the evils of communism and the virtues of free markets, so too must we take on the ideology of radical Islam. While my opponent accepted millions of dollars in foundation donations from countries where being gay is an offense punishable by prison or death, my administration will speak out against the oppression of women, gays and people of different beliefs.Our administration would be a friend to all moderate Muslim reformers in the Middle East and will amplify their voices. This includes speaking out against the horrible practice of honor killings, where women are murdered by their relatives for dressing, marrying or acting in a way that violates fundamentalist teachings. Over 1,000 Pakistani girls are estimated to be the victims of honor killings by their relatives each year.Recently a prominent Pakistani social media star was strangled to death by her brother on the charge of dishonoring the family. In his confession, the brother took pride in the murder and said, " Girls are born to stay home and follow traditions." Shockingly, this is a tradition that has reached our own shores. On such cases, and many, many cases have happened -- where one involves an Iraqi immigrant who was sentenced to 34 years in jail for running over his own daughter, claiming she had been too Westernized.To defeat Islamic terrorism we must also speak our forcefully against a hateful ideology that provides the breeding ground for violence and terrorism to grow. It's a breeding ground. It's a terrible, terrible breeding ground. A new immigration policy is needed immediately and as well.The common thread linking the major Islamic terror attacks that have recently occurred on our soil -- 9/11, the Fort Hood shooting, the Boston bombing, the San Bernardino attack, the Orlando attack -- is that they have involved immigrants or the children of immigrants. Clearly, new screening procedures are needed. A review by the U.S. Senate Immigration Subcommittee has identified 380 foreign-born individuals charged with terrorism or terrorism-related offenses between 9/11 and 2014, and many more since then, and this year is a record for identification. It's gotten worse, far worse.We also know that ISIS recruits refugees after their entrance into the country, as we have seen with the Somali refugee population in Minnesota.Beyond terrorism, as we have also seen in France, foreign populations have brought their anti-Semitic attitudes with them. In Cologne, Germany on New Years, we have seen the reports of sexual violence and assault far greater than anybody knows.Pew polling shows that in many of the countries from which we draw large number of immigrants -- extreme views about religion such death penalty -- and for those who are involved -- the death penalty is very, very common if you don't have the faith that they demand you have.A Trump administration will establish a clear principle that will govern all decisions pertaining to immigration. And we will be tough. We will be even extreme.We should only admit into this country those who share our values and respect our people. In the Cold War, we had an ideological screening test. The time is overdue to develop a new screening test for the threats we face today. I call it extreme vetting. I call it extreme, extreme vetting.Our country has enough problems. We don't need more. These are problems like we have never had before.In addition to scrape out all members of the sympathizers of terrorist groups, we must also screen out any hostile attitude towards our country or its principles, or who believed Sharia law should supplant American law.Those who did not believe in our Constitution or who support bigotry and hatred will not be admitted for immigration into our country.Only those who we expect to flourish in our country and to embrace a tolerant American society should be issued visas.To put these new procedures in place, we will have to temporarily suspend immigration from some of the most dangerous and volatile regions of the world that have a history of exporting terrorism. Not for us. Not for us.Thank you.As soon as I take office, I will ask the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security to identify a list of regions where inadequate screening cannot take place. There are many such regions. We will stop processing visas from those area until such time as it is deemed safe to resume based on new circumstances or new procedures. The size of current immigration flows are too large to perform adequate screening. We admit about 100,000 permanent immigrants from the middle east every year. Beyond that, we admit hundreds of thousands of temporary workers and visitors from the same regions. Hundreds of thousands. If we don't control the numbers, we can't perform adequate screening. There's no way it can take place.By contrast, my opponent wants to increase -- which is unbelievable, no matter who you are, no matter where you come from -- wants to increase the flow of Syrian refugees by 550 percent over what they are now. The United States subcommittee on Immigration estimates that Hillary Clinton's plan would mean roughly 620,000 refugees from all current refugee-sending nations in her first term, assuming no cuts to other refugee programs. So it could get worse.This would be additional to all other non-refugee immigration. Unbelievable numbers. Unbelievable numbers. The subcommittee estimates her plan would impose a lifetime cost of roughly $400 billion when you include the cost of healthcare, welfare, housing, schooling, and all other entitlement benefits that are excluded from the State Department's placement figures. Think of this. Four hundred billion dollars.In short, Hillary Clinton wants to be America's Angela Merkel and you know what a disaster this massive immigration has been to Germany and the people of Germany. Crime has risen to levels that no one thought they would ever, ever see. It is a catastrophe. We have enough problems in our country. We don't need more. Lastly, we will need to restore common sense to our security procedures.Another common feature of the past attacks that have occurred on our soil is that warning signs were totally ignored. The 9/11 hijackers had fraud all over their visa applications. Almost every one of them. It said, practically, in big bold letters, fraud and nobody saw it. The Russians warned us about the Boston bombers here on political asylum and the attackers were even twice interviewed by the FBI. Very sad.The female San Bernardino shooter, on her -- her statements and everything that she said, she was here on a fiance visa, which most people have never even heard of, from Saudi Arabia and she wanted to support very openly Jihad online. These are the people we're taking in. A neighbor saw suspicious behavior. Bombs on the floor and other things, but didn't warn authorities because they said they didn't want to be accused of racial profiling. Now, many are dead and many more are gravely wounded. The shooter in Orlando reportedly celebrated in his classroom after 9/11. He too was interviewed by the FBI. His father, a native of Afghanistan, supported the oppressive Taliban regime and expressed anti-American views very strongly. And by the way, was just seen sitting behind Hillary Clinton with a big fat smile on his face all the way through her speech.He obviously liked what she had to say. It's called weakness. Weakness. It's called stupidity. And we've had it.The Fort Hood shooter delivered a presentation to a room full of mental health experts before the attacks in which he threw out one red flag after another. He even proclaimed that we love death more than you love life. Not good. These warning signs were ignored because political correctness has replaced common sense in our society.Thank you. That is why one of my first acts as president will be to establish a commission on radical Islam which will include reformist voices in the Muslim community who will hopefully work with us. We want to build bridges and erase divisions. The goal of the commission will be to identify and explain to the American public the core convictions and beliefs of radical Islam, to identify the warning signs of radicalization, and to expose the networks in our society that support radicalization.This commission will be used to develop new protocols for local police officers, federal investigators, and immigration screeners. And while I'm at it, we should give a hand to our great police officers and law enforcement officials.Thank you. We will also keep open Guantanamo Bay, and place a renewed emphasis on human intelligence. Drone strikes will remain part of our strategy, but we will also seek to capture high value targets to gain needed information to dismantle their organizations. Foreign combatants will be tried in military commissions.Finally, we will pursue aggressive criminal or immigration charges against anyone who lends material support to terrorism. There will be consequences for those people. There will be very serious consequences.Similar to the effort to take down the Mafia, this will be the understood mission of every federal investigator and prosecutor in the country. To accomplish a goal, you must state a mission. The support networks for radical Islam in this country will be stripped out and removed one by one, viciously if necessary. Viciously if necessary.Immigration offices will also have their powers restored. Those -- it's been taken away. Those who are guests in our country that are preaching hate will be asked to return home immediately, and if they don't do it, we will return them home.To make America safe again, we must work together again. Our victory in the Cold War relied on a bipartisan and international consensus. That is what we must have to defeat radical Islamic terrorism. But just like we couldn't defeat communism without acknowledging that communism exists, or explaining its horrible evils, we can't defeat radical Islamic terrorism unless we do the exact same thing. We have to explain that it exists and explain the difficulties. We have to have a leader that can do that, and we don't have that now.But this also means that we have to promote the exceptional virtues of our own way of life. We have an exceptional country, and exceptional way of life. But it's being tread on by sick, sick people. And expecting that as newcomers come into our society, they will likewise have respect and do the same.Pride in our institutions, our history, and our values should be taught by parents and teachers, and impressed upon all of those who come into our society and want to join our society. Assimilation is not an act of hostility, but an expression of compassion. Our system of government and our American culture is the best in the world and will produce the best outcomes for all who adopt them.Thank you. This approach will not only make us safer, but bring us closer together as a country. Renewing the spirit of Americanism will help heal the divisions in our country of which there are so many. We have a divider as president. We call him the great divider. It's the thing he does best.He will do so by emphasizing what we have in common, not what pulls us apart. This is my pledge to the American people. As your president, I will be your single greatest champion. I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally.We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its many ugly forms, and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people. Only this way will we make America great again, and safe again, for everyone. Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.Thank you! Thank you, everybody!Thank you, everybody. Thank you. It's great to be here tonight.I'm honored also to be joined this evening by Governor Scott Walker, a great gentleman and a really great governor, Chairman Reince Priebus and Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.We're at a decisive moment in this election. Last week, I laid out my plan to bring jobs back to our country, desperately needed jobs.Yesterday I laid out my plan to defeat radical Islamic terrorism.Tonight I'm going to talk about how to make our communities safe again from crime and lawlessness.Let me begin by thanking law enforcement officers here in this city and across this country for their service and sacrifice in difficult, difficult, difficult times.The violence, riots and destruction that have taken place in Milwaukee is an assault on the right of all citizens to live in security and to live in peace.Law and order must be restored.It must be restored for the sake of all, but most especially for the sake of those living in the affected communities, of which there are many. The main victims of these riots are law-abiding African-American citizens living in these neighborhoods. It's their job, it's their homes, it's their schools and communities which will suffer the most as a result.There's no compassion in tolerating lawless conduct for anyone.Crime and violence is an attack on the poor and will never be accepted in a Trump administration.The narrative has been pushed aggressively for years and now by our current administration and pushed by my opponent, Hillary Clinton, you know is a totally false one.You know that. The problem in our poorest communities is not that there are too many police. The problem is that there are not enough police.More law enforcement, more community engagement, more effective policing is what our country needs desperately.Just like Hillary Clinton is against the miners, she is against the police, believe me. You know it and I know it. And guess what? She knows it.Those pedaling the narrative of cops as a racist force in our society, a narrative supported with a nod by my opponent, shared directly in the responsibility for the unrest in Milwaukee and many other places within our country.They have fostered the dangerous anti-police atmosphere in America and all throughout America. Every time we rush to judgment with false facts and narratives, whether in Ferguson or in Baltimore, and foment further unrest, we do a direct disservice to poor African-American residents who are hurt by the high crime in their community. A big, big, unfair problem.During the last 72 hours while protesters have raged against the police here in Milwaukee, another nine were killed in Chicago and another 46 were wounded. More than 2,600 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year and almost 4,000 people killed in President Obama's hometown area since his presidency began. Not too good, that's for sure.So how are we serving these American victims by attacking law enforcement officers? The war on our police must end and it must end now.Thank you.The war on police is a war on all peaceful citizens who want to be able to work and live and send their kids to school in safety. Our job is not to make life more comfortable for the rioter or the robber or the looter or the violent disrupter, of which there are many. Our job is to make life more comfortable for the African-American parent who wants their kids to be able to safely -- safely -- walk the streets and walk to school, or the senior citizen waiting for a bus, or the young child walking home from school.For every one violent protester, there are a hundred moms and dads and kids on the same city block who just want to be able to sleep safely at night. They want safety.My opponent, Hillary, would rather protect the offender than the victim, a big problem in our society.Hillary Clinton-backed policies are responsible for the problems in the inner cities today, and a vote for her is a vote for another generation of poverty, high crime and lost opportunities.I care too much about my country to let this happen.Thank you.The fact is we all care too much about our country to let this happen. Good policing saves lives.My wonderful friend who you just heard, Rudy Giuliani, knows a thing or two about this. He's done an amazing job. The policies put into place by Rudy ultimately brought down crime by 76 percent and murder by 84 percent in New York.Think of how many families were saved, how much heartache was prevented when police were put into communities and criminals were automatically and systematically removed. Imagine how many lives could have been saved all across this country if Democratic politicians hadn't blocked in their cities what Rudy did in New York City.I'll make sure we deliver safe neighborhoods here in Milwaukee, and Milwaukee has got so many problems, so many problems. The world is watching right here in Milwaukee, but also across the country.It's easy for Hillary Clinton to turn a blind eye to crime when she has her own private security force that, by the way, carries guns -- Second Amendment.I believe all Americans, not just the powerful, are entitled to security. Hillary Clinton has had her chance. She's failed at so many things, almost everything she's done. Now it's time for new leadership. The Hillary Clinton agenda hurts poor people, by far, the most. There is no compassion in allowing drug dealers, gang members and felons to prey on innocent people.It is the first duty of government to keep the innocent safe. And when I'm president, I will fight for the safety of every American and especially those Americans who have not known safety for a very, very long time.I'm asking for the vote of every African-American citizen struggling in our country today who wants a different and much better future.It's time for our society to address some honest and very, very difficult terms. The Democratic Party has failed and betrayed the African-American community. Democratic crime policies, education policies and economic policies have produced only more crime, more broken homes and more poverty.Thank you.Let us look at the situation right here in Milwaukee, a city run by Democrats for decade after decade. Last year, killings in this city increased by 69 percent, plus another 634 victims of non-fatal shootings. 18- to 29-year-olds accounted for nearly half of the homicide victims.The poverty rate here is nearly double the national average. Almost four in 10 African-American men in Milwaukee between the ages of 25 and 54 do not have a job. Nearly four in 10 single-mother households are living in poverty.Fifty-five public schools in this city have been rated as failing to meet expectations, despite $10,000 in funding per pupil, which is a very, very high number. There's only a 60 percent graduation rate, and it's one of the worst public school systems anywhere in the country.One in five manufacturing jobs has disappeared in Milwaukee since we fully opened our markets, and you understand what that means, we opened these markets to China and many African-American neighborhoods, look, they have suffered. We opened our markets, they've taken our jobs. They give us our products that we don't make anymore. And African-American neighborhoods along with many other neighborhoods have suffered greatly.To every voter in Milwaukee, to every voter living in the inner city or every forgotten stretch of our society, I'm running to offer you a much better future, a much better job...... at a much higher wage.Thank you. Thank you.The Democratic Party has taken the votes of African-Americans for granted. They've just assumed they'll get your support and done nothing in return for it. They've taken advantage of the African- American citizen.It's time to give the Democrats some competition for these votes, and it's time to rebuild the inner cities of America and to reject the failed leadership of a rigged political system. And that's what it is, it's a rigged system.I'm not part of the corrupt system. In fact, the corrupt system is trying to stop me. I've been paying my own way, tens of millions of dollars, tens of millions of dollars.The voters in the Republican Party this year defied the donors, the consultants, the power brokers and chose a nominee from outside our failed and corrupt, broken system. The nominee is me.The other party, the Democratic Party, nominated the personification of special-interest corruption.The Democratic Party rigged the nomination to give it to Hillary Clinton, thus giving the soul of their party this year to special interests. What else is new?I'm running to listen to your voice, to hear the cries for help from so many people in our nation. The quiet voices in our society, not the loudest demonstrators, need to have their demands heard.Jobs, safety, opportunity, fair and equal representation -- we reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, which panders to and talks down to communities of color and sees them only as a votes, that's all they care about, not as individual human beings worthy of a better future. They have taken advantage.She doesn't care at all about the hurting people of this country or the suffering she has caused them, and she meaning she and her party officials. There has been tremendous suffering because of what they have brought. The African-American community has been taken for granted for decades by the Democratic Party and look how they're doing. It's time to break with the failures of the past.I want to offer Americans a new and much better future. It's time for rule by the people, not rule for the special interests, which we have right now.Thank you.Every insider getting rich off our broken system, and it is broken, is throwing money at Hillary Rodham Clinton.The hedge fund managers, the Wall Street investors, the professional political class, it's the powerful protecting only the powerful. They don't care about you, believe me. Insiders fighting for insiders, but I'm fighting for you, that's what I'm doing.When we talk about the insider, who are we talking about? It's the comfortable politicians looking out for their own interests. It's the lobbyists who know how to insert that perfect loophole into every single bill and get richer and richer and richer at your expense.It's the financial industry that knows how to regulate their competition right out of existence so there is no competition.The insiders also include the media executives, anchors and journalists in Washington, Los Angeles and New York City who are part of the same failed status quo and want nothing to change. They don't want it to change. They like it just fine the way it is now.Every day you pick up a newspaper or turn on the nightly news and you hear about some self-interest banker or some self-discredited Washington insider say they oppose Donald Trump's campaign. But you don't oppose it, that I can tell you. You don't oppose it.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, a great honor, it's a great honor.And you have three times as many people standing outside trying to get in, so I just want to tell you thank you. Amazing.Or some encrusted old politician says they oppose our campaign or some big-time lobbyist says they oppose the campaign of Trump. I wear their opposition as a badge of honor...... because it means I'm fighting for real change, not just partisan change where everybody else gets rich but you. A rigged, rigged system, remember it, I said it first, I'll probably be saying it for a long time. But eventually we're going to break that system.I'm fighting, all of us across the country are fighting for a peaceful regime change in our country. The media/donor/political complex that's bled this country dry has to be replaced with a new government of, by and for the people.The leadership class in Washington, D.C., of which Hillary Clinton has been a member for 30 years, has abandoned the people of this country. They care about themselves, they only care about themselves.I am going to give the people their voice back.Think about it. The people opposing our campaign are the same people who have left our border open and let innocent people suffer as a result, including vast amounts of crime, vast amounts of drugs pouring into our country and poisoning our youth and our people.The people opposing our campaign are the same people who have led us into one disastrous foreign war after another, one after another. No wins, no victory, no nothing.The people opposing our campaign are the same people who lie to us about one trade deal after another. They keep getting worse.Aren't you tired of a system that gets rich at your expense? Because that's what's happening.Aren't you tired of big media, big businesses and big donors rigging the system to keep your voice from being heard?Are you ready for change?Are you ready for leadership that puts you, the American people, first together, first?That puts our country first, America First. Remember that, America First, America First, America First.Let's talk about what this means for the inner cities of America, a big, big problem unsolved forever. It's time to break through the television noise, the entrenched interests which are just decimating our country and our inner cities.I understand that a lot of powerful people are in our political system. A lot of people who've created our problems will lose a lot of their contracts and a lot of their money if African-American voters and all the minority voters support my campaign. That I know, that I know for sure.It's time to stop making the special interests rich. It's time to make the American people much richer than they've ever been before.I'm going to make America wealthy again. We have to make America wealthy again if we're going to do what we want to do. We have to be smart. We have to make America wealthy again.The Democratic Party has run nearly every inner city in this country for 50 years and run them into financial ruin, virtually every single one. They've ruined the schools. They've driven out the jobs. They've tolerated a level of crime no American should consider acceptable, worse than many third-world countries, so bad that people don't want to even report on it.The real numbers are beyond belief. Violent crime has risen 17 percent in America's 50 largest cities last year. Killings of police officers this year is up nearly 50 percent. Homicides are up more than 60 percent in Baltimore alone. They're up more than 50 percent in Washington, D.C.This is the future offered by the policies of Hillary Clinton and her friends: more poverty, more crime and basically just more of the same.The future she offers is the most pessimistic thing I could possibly imagine.It's time for a different future. Here is what I'm proposing.First, on immigration. No community in this country has been hurt worse by Hillary Clinton's immigration and all of her policies than the African-American community. And she considers them a guaranteed vote. Now she is proposing to print instant work permits for millions of illegal immigrants to come in and take everybody's job, including low-income African-Americans. Not right, not going to happen.We will only invite people to join our country who share our tolerant values, who support our Constitution and who love all of our people. They love our people, they have to love our country, or what are we doing?On trade, I'm going to renegotiate NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever signed in the history of our country, perhaps the worst ever signed in the history, frankly, of the world.We're going to stand up to China, withdraw from TPP, which is another disaster, and protect every last American job. We are going to protect every last American job, which we're not doing now.On taxes, I'm going to give a massive tax cut to every worker and small business in this country, bring thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs onto our shores, and make it very difficult for our businesses to leave. It will be a costly proposition for them to fire everybody and leave.I'm going to reform our regulations so jobs stay in America and new businesses come to America to hire workers, even right here in Milwaukee.Every policy my opponent has sends jobs outside of the country and overseas. I'm going to bring trillions in new wealth back into the United States.Our education, believe me, you look at our education, it's time to have school choice, merit pay for teachers and to end the tenure policies that hurt good teachers and reward bad teachers.And there is no job more important than a good teacher, please remember that. There is no job more important.We are going to put students and parents first. Hillary Clinton would rather deny opportunities to millions of young African-American children just so she can curry favor with the education bureaucracy which is very big and a lot of votes.I am going to allow charter schools to thrive and help young kids get on the American ladder of success. A good education and a good- paying job, that's what they want.On crime, I am going to support more police in our communities, appoint the best prosecutors and judges in the country, pursue strong enforcement of federal laws, and I'm going to break up the gangs, the cartels and the criminal syndicates terrorizing our neighborhoods all over the country, and that includes Milwaukee.To every lawbreaker hurting innocent people in this country, I say your free reign will soon come crashing to an end.On health care, we're going to get rid of Obamacare, repeal it and replace it.It's caused soaring, double-digit premium increases. And we're going to give choice to patients and to consumers across our land.Aetna just today announced that they are dropping out, as are many of the major insurance companies. Obamacare  is a disaster. It's a disaster.On government corruption, I'm going to restore honor to our government. We've seen the corruption of Hillary Clinton, the mass email -- look at what's going on, folks. Look at what's going on -- the mass email deletions. Have you see the 33,000 deletions? The pay-for-play at the State Department, the profiteering, the favors given to foreign corporations and governments at your expense and taxpayers' expense, and it's not acceptable any longer. It's corrupt.We've seen a former Secretary of State lie to Congress about her illegal email scheme, risk innocent American lives and bring dishonor onto our government, great, great dishonor.In my administration, I'm going to enforce all laws concerning the protection of classified information. Those laws are already protected, we thought, but perhaps everybody is wrong. Perhaps all of those that have served jail time were wrong. She got special favors and nobody has ever seen anything like it in the history of our country.No one will be above the law. I am going to forbid senior officials from trading favors for cash by preventing them from collecting lavish speaking fees through their spouses when they serve.I am going to ask my senior officials to sign an agreement not to accept speaking fees from corporations with a registered lobbyist, for five years after leaving office, or from any entity tied to a foreign government. What's happening is disgraceful.This is all just the beginning. We are going to make this a government of the people once again. This is our chance, this is it, this is it, your last chance. This is our chance to take back power from all the people who've taken it from you over so many years.The reason you see the establishment and the establishment media lining up behind my opponent is because they are scared that you with your vote can take away their power and return it to your family and to your community.And they are scared. And they have no idea how many people on November 8th are going to come out and vote.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.These are tough times, but I know we can make America greater than ever before. I have absolutely no doubt.I have gotten to know the people of this country. And I'll tell you, there are no people like the people I have gotten to know, no people.To do this, we are going to need a fighter in the White House. I will be your fighter. Believe me, I will be your fighter.To defeat crime and radical Islamic terrorism in our country, to win trade in our country, you need tremendous physical and mental strength and stamina. Hillary Clinton doesn't have that strength or stamina, believe me. And you know it and they know it and everybody knows it.She cannot win for you. Most importantly, she has very, very bad judgment. Bad judgment on terrorism, bad judgment on foreign policy, bad judgment on trade.The only individuals she's ever delivered for are her donors; not the people, just the donors.I've said it before and I'll say it again. My opponent asks her supporters to recite a three-word pledge. Her pledge reads: I'm with her.I choose to recite a totally different pledge. My pledge reads: I'm with you, the American people.I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its many ugly forms and seek a new future of security, prosperity and opportunity, a future built on our common culture and values as one American people.I am asking for your vote on November 8th so I can be your champion in the White House. OK? OK?I will be your champion, I will be your voice in the White House. We will bring it back. We will once again be a country of law and order.And we will once again be a country of great and unchallenged success.To every parent who dreams for their children and to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight. I'm with you, I will fight for you and I will win for you.Together, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again, greater than ever before.Thank you and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you.Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you and it's great to be in Charlotte.I just met with our many amazing employees right up the road at my property. I will tell you, they like me very much. I guess I pay them a little too much.I'd like to take a moment to talk about the heartbreak and devastation in Louisiana, a state that is very, very special to me. We are one nation. When one state hurts, we all hurt, and we must all work together to lift each other up.Working, building, restoring together. Our prayers are with the families who have lost loved ones, and we send them our deepest condolences. Through words cannot express the sadness one feels at times like this. I hope everyone in Louisiana knows that our country is praying for them and standing with them to help them in these difficult hours. They are very, very difficult. Thank you.We are one country, one people, and we will have together one great fantastic future.Together, I'd like to talk about the new American future that we are going to create as a team together. Last week, I laid out my plan to bring jobs back to our country. They are vanishing, and they are vanishing quickly. On Monday, I laid out my plan to defeat radical Islamic terrorism.On Tuesday, in Wisconsin, I talked about how we're going to restore law and order to this country. We need law and order. Without it, we have nothing.Let me take this opportunity to extend our thanks and our gratitude to the police and law enforcement officers in this country who have sacrificed so greatly in these very difficult times. And they are difficult. The chaos and violence on our streets and the assault on law enforcement are really and truly an attack against all peaceful citizens. If I'm elected president, this chaos and violence will end, and it will end very, very quickly.But we must also provide opportunities for all of our people. We cannot make America great again if we leave any community behind. Nearly four in 10 African-American children are living in poverty. I will not rest until children of every color in this country are fully included in the American dream.Jobs, safety, opportunity is what we have to have and it's what we need. Fair and equal representation. This is what I promise to African-Americans, Hispanics, Americans and -- of all types, of all colors, of all religions. This is what we promise, we all promise. Everybody in this room promises this is what we have to do.But to achieve this new American future, we must break from the failures of the past. As you know, I'm not a politician.It's good. I've worked in business, created a great company, created lot of jobs, rebuilding neighborhoods. That's what I've done all of my adult life. I've never wanted to learn the language of the insiders and I've never been politically correct. It takes far too much time.Truthfully, it takes far too much time and can often make it more difficult to achieve total victory. Sometimes, in the heat of debate and speaking on a multitude of issues, you don't choose the right words or you say the wrong thing. I have done that.And believe it or not, I regret it. And I do regret it, particularly where it may have caused personal pain. Too much is at stake for us to be consumed with these issues. But one thing -- I can promise you this. I will always tell you the truth.I speak the truth for all of you and for everyone in this country who doesn't have a voice, of which there are many. I speak the truth on behalf of the factory worker who lost his or her job, and that's happening more and more in our country. I speak the truth on behalf of the veteran who has been denied the medical care they need and the medical care they deserve. And so many are not making it, but they're going to make it if Trump becomes president. That, I can tell you.They are dying on lines waiting for a doctor. We are going to take care of our veterans. I speak the truth on behalf of the family living near the border that deserves to be safe in their own country, but is instead living with no security and no protection at all.We will build the wall. Believe me, we will build it.Our campaign is about representing the great majority of Americans. Republicans, Democrats, independents, conservatives and liberals who read the newspaper or turn on the television and don't hear anyone -- anyone speaking for them. All they hear are insiders fighting for other insiders. That's what they do.These are the forgotten men and women in our society, and they are angry at so much and on so many levels...... the poverty, the unemployment, the failing schools, the jobs moving to other countries.I'm fighting for these forgotten Americans.Fourteen months ago, I declared my campaign for the presidency on the promise to give our government back to the people.Every day since then, I've worked to repay the loyalty and the faith that you have put in me.Every day I think about how much is at stake for our country in the upcoming election. This isn't just the fight of my life, it's the fight of our lives together to save our country.Thank you.I refuse to let another generation of American children be excluded from the American dream, which is what's happening. Our whole country loses when young people of limitless potential are denied the opportunity to contribute their talents because we failed to provide them the opportunities that they deserve.Let our children be dreamers too.Our whole country loses every time a kid doesn't graduate from high school or fails to enter the workforce or, worse still, is lost to the dreadful world of drugs and crime. And so many are, so, so many.When I look at the failing schools, the terrible trade deals, the infrastructure crumbling in our inner cities, I know all of this can be fixed and I can fix it. But I know it can be fixed very, very quickly if we know what we're doing.In the world I come from, if something is broken, you fix it; if something isn't working, you replace it; if a product doesn't deliver, you make a change.I have no patience for injustice, no tolerance for government incompetence -- and that's what it is, is gross incompetence...... and no sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens. That's why I am running: to end the decades of bitter failure and to offer the American people a new future of honesty, justice and opportunity...... a future where America and its people always -- and I mean always -- comes first. America First. Remember America First. America First.Aren't you tired of a system that gets rich? And this is a system which is getting very rich at your expense, that's what's happening.Aren't you tired of the same old lies and the same old broken promises? And Hillary Clinton has proven to be one of the greatest liars of all time.Aren't you tired of arrogant leaders who look down on you instead of serving and protecting you? And that's what's happening.We are going to put the American people first again.I've traveled all across this country laying out my bold and modern agenda for change. In this journey, I will never lie to you, I will never tell you something I do not believe, I will never put anyone's interests ahead of yours...... and I will never ever stop fighting for you.I have no special interests controlling me and I have no special interests. I'm spending millions and millions of dollars on my own campaign. I'm funding my campaign.My only interest is the American people; my interest.This country has been so good to me, I'm giving back. And that's what it's all about, giving back.So while sometimes I can be too honest, Hillary Clinton is the exact opposite. She never tells the truth: one lie after another and getting worse with each passing day.Thank you.The American people are still waiting for Hillary Clinton to apologize for all of the many lies she's told to them and the many times she has betrayed the American people at great danger to them.Tell me, has Hillary ever apologized for lying about her illegal email server and deleting 33,000 emails?Has Hillary Clinton apologized for turning the State Department into a pay-for-play operation where favors are sold to the highest bidder, which is exactly what's happening?Has she apologized for lying to the families who lost loved ones at Benghazi?Has she apologized for putting Iran on a path to nuclear weapons?Has she apologized for Iraq? For Libya, for Syria?Has she apologized for unleashing ISIS across the world? She and Barack Obama unleashed ISIS. Whether you like it or don't like it, whether you want to hear it or don't, that's what happened.Has Hillary Clinton apologized for the decisions she made that have led to so much death, destruction and terrorism?Speaking of lies, we now know from the State Department, just announced, that President Obama lied about the $400 million in cash...... that was flown to Iran. It was flown to Iran. $400 million in cash.He denied it was for the hostages, but it was. Just came out.He said, "We don't pay ransom, " but we did. He lied about the hostages, openly and blatantly, just like he lied about Obamacare.You remember, "You can have your doctor, you can have your plan, " right? "You can have your doctor, you can have your plan." Didn't work out that way.Now the administration has put every American traveling overseas, including our military personnel, at greater risk of being kidnapped.Hillary Clinton owns President Obama's Iran policy: One more reason she can never, ever be allowed to be president.Let's talk about the economy.Here, in this beautiful and great state, so many people have suffered because of NAFTA. NAFTA. Remember NAFTA, what it's done to this country. Bill Clinton signed the deal and Hillary Clinton supported the deal. North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA went into effect.Bill Clinton also put China into the World Trade Organization, another Hillary Clinton-backed disaster. Your city of Charlotte has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since China joined the WTO, and many of these jobs were lost while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, our chief diplomat with China.She was a disaster. Totally unfit for this job. Totally unfit.Hillary Clinton owes the state of North Carolina a very big apology. And I think you'll get that apology around the same time you'll get to see her 33,000 deleted emails.In another words, you'll never see the apology.Another major issue in this campaign has been the border. Our open border has allowed drugs and crime and gangs to pour into our country and our communities. So much needless suffering, so much preventable death.I've spent time with the families of wonderful Americans whose loved ones were killed by the open borders and sanctuary cities that Hillary Clinton supports.I've embraced crying parents who've lost their children to violence spilling across our border, parents like Laura Wilkerson and Michelle Root and Sabin Durden and my friend Jamiel Shaw, whose children were killed by illegal immigrants so needlessly.My opponent supports sanctuary cities.But where were these sanctuaries for Kate Steinle? Where were they? Where were they?Where was it? Where was the sanctuary for Kate? Think about it.Where was the sanctuary for the children of Laura and Michelle and Sabin and Jamiel? Where was the sanctuary for every other parent who has suffered so horribly?These moms and dads don't get a lot of consideration from our politicians. They certainly don't get apologies. They'll never even get the time of day from Hillary Clinton. She doesn't even care, I'm convinced.But they will always come first to me.Listen closely. We will deliver justice for all of these great American families.We will create a system of immigration that makes us all proud.Hillary Clinton's mistakes destroy innocent lives, sacrifice national security and betray the working families of this country.Please remember this: I will never put personal profit before national security. Nobody should.I will never leave our border open to appease donors and special interests, which is what Hillary is doing. And they are being appeased.I will never support a trade deal that kills American jobs.I will never ever put the special interests before the national interests.I will never put a donor before a voter, or a lobbyist before a citizen.Instead, I will be a champion for the people.The establishment media doesn't cover what really matters in this country or what's really going on in people's lives. They will take words of mine out of context and spend a week obsessing over every single syllable and then pretend to discover some hidden meaning in what I said.Just imagine for a second if the media spent this energy holding the politicians accountable who got innocent Americans like Kate Steinle killed. She was gunned down by an illegal immigrant who had been deported five times.Just imagine if the media spent time -- and lots of time -- investigating the poverty and joblessness of the inner cities.Just think about how much different things would be if the media in this country sent their cameras to our border, to our closing factories, or to our failing schools...... or if the media focused on what dark secrets must be hidden in the 33,000 emails that Hillary Clinton illegally deleted.Thank you.Instead every story is told from the perspective of the insider. It's the narrative of the people who rig the system, never the voice of the people it's been rigged against, believe me.So many people suffering for so long in silence. No cameras, no coverage, no outrage from the media class that seems to get outraged over just about everything else.So again, it's not about me. It's never been about me. It's been about all the people in this country who don't have a voice.I am running to be your voice.Thank you.I am running to be the voice for every forgotten part of this country that has been waiting and hoping for a better future.I am glad that I make the powerful -- and I mean very powerful -- a little uncomfortable now and again, including some of the powerful people, frankly, in my own party.Because it means that I'm fighting for real change -- real change.There's a reason hedge fund managers, the financial lobbyists, the Wall Street investors are throwing their money all over Hillary Clinton: because they know she will make sure the system stays rigged in their favor.It's the powerful protecting the powerful, the insiders fighting for the insiders. I am fighting for you.Here is the change I propose.On terrorism, we are going to end the era of nation-building and instead focus on destroying, destroying, destroying ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism.We will use military, cyber and financial warfare, and work with any partner in the world and the Middle East that shares our goal of defeating terrorism.I have a message for the terrorists trying to kill our citizens: We will find you, we will destroy you, and we will absolutely win, and we will win soon.On immigration, we will temporarily suspend immigration from anyplace where adequate screening cannot be performed. Extreme vetting.Remember, extreme vetting.All applicants for immigration will be vetted for ties to radical ideology, and we will screen out anyone who doesn't share our values and love our people.Anyone who believes Sharia law supplants American law will not be given an immigrant visa.If you want to join our society, then you must embrace our society, our values and our tolerant way of life.Those who believe in oppressing women, gays, Hispanics, African- Americans and people of different faiths are not welcome to join our great country.We will promote our American values, our American way of life and our American system of government, which are all -- all -- the best in the world.My opponent, on the other hand, wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees, even more than already pouring into our country under President Obama.Her plan would bring in roughly 620,000 refugees from all refugee-sending nations in her first term alone, on top of all other immigration. Think of that. Think of that. What are we doing?Hillary Clinton is running to be America's Angela Merkel...... and we've seen how much crime and how many problems that's caused the German people and Germany.We have enough problems already. We do not need more.On crime, we're going to add more police, more investigators and appoint the best judges and prosecutors in the world.We will pursue strong enforcement of federal laws. The gangs and cartels and criminal syndicates terrorizing our people will be stripped apart one by one, and they'll be sent out of our country quickly.Their day is over and it's going to end very, very fast.Our trade...Thank you.On trade, we're going to renegotiate NAFTA to make it better. And if they don't agree, we will withdraw.And likewise, we're going to withdraw from the Transpacific Partnership, another disaster.Stand up to China on our terrible trade agreements and protect every last American job. Hillary Clinton has supported all of the major trade deals that have stripped this country of its jobs and its wealth. We owe $20 trillion. On taxes, we are going to massively cut tax rates for workers and small businesses creating millions of new good paying jobs.We're going to get rid of regulations that send jobs overseas and we are going to make it easier for young Americans to get the credit they need to start a small business and pursue their dream.On education, so important, we are going to give students choice and allow charter schools to thrive. We are going to end tenure policies that reward bad teachers and hurt our great, good teachers.My opponent wants to deny students choice and opportunity all to get a little bit more money from the education bureaucracy. She doesn't care how many young dreams are dashed or destroyed and they're destroyed. Young people are destroyed before they even start.We are going to work closely with African American parents and children. We are going to work with the parent students. We are going to work with everybody in the African American community. In the inner cities, and what a big difference that is going to make. It's one of the things I most look forward to doing.This means a lot to me and it's going to be a top priority in a Trump administration. On health care, we are going to repeal and replace the disaster called Obamacare.Countless Americans have been forced into part-time jobs, premiums are about to jump by double digits yet again, and just this week, Aetna announced it is pulling out of the exchanges all over but also in North Carolina. We are going to replace this disaster with reforms that give you choice and freedom and control in health care at a much, much lower cost. You'll have much better health care at a much lower cost and it will happen quickly.On political corruption, we are going to restore honor to our government. In my administration, I'm going to enforce all laws concerning the protection of classified information.No one will be above the law. I am going to forbid senior officials from trading favors for cash by preventing them from collecting lavish speaking fees through their spouses when they serve.I'm going to ask my senior officials to sign an agreement not to accept speaking fees from corporations with a registered lobbyist for five years after leaving office or from any entity tied to a foreign government.Finally, we are going to bring our country together. It is so divided. We are going to bring it together. We are going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common as Americans. We're going to reject bigotry.And I will tell you, the bigotry of Hillary Clinton is amazing. She sees communities of color only as votes and not as human beings worthy of a better future -- it's only votes.It is only votes that she sees. And she does nothing about it. She's been there forever, and look at where you are.If African-American voters give Donald Trump a chance by giving me their vote, the result for them will be amazing.Look how badly things are going under decades of Democratic leadership. Look at the schools. Look at the poverty. Look at the 58 percent of young African Americans not working -- 58 percent. It is time for a change.What do you have to lose by trying something new? I will fix it.Watch, I will fix it. You have nothing to lose -- nothing to lose.It is so bad. The inner cities are so bad, you have nothing to lose.They have been playing with you for 60, 70, 80 years -- many, many decades. You have nothing to lose. I will do a great job.This means so much to me. And I will work as hard as I can to bring new opportunity to places in our country which have known it in a very, very long time.Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party have taken African American votes totally for granted because the votes have been automatically there for them, there has been no reason for Democrats to produce. And they haven't, they haven't produced in decades and decades.It's time to break with the failures of the past and to fight for every last American child in this country to have a better and a much, much brighter future.In my administration every American will be treated equally, protected equally, and honored equally. We will reject bigotry, and hatred, and oppression in all of its forms and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.This is the change I am promising to all of you, an honest government, a great economy, and a just society for each and every American.But we can never, ever fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created these problems in the first place -- can't do it.72 percent of voters say our country is on the wrong track. I am the change candidate. Hillary Clinton is for the failed status quo to protect her special interests, her donors, her lobbyists, and others.It is time to vote for a new American future. Together we will make America strong again.We will make America proud again. We will make America safe againFriends and fellow citizens, come November we will make America great again -- greater than ever before.Thank you, thank you, and God bless you. Thank you.Thank you very much.Thank you very much, thank you, thank you, thank you. What a crowd, wow! Look at that. What -- what a crowd. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. We just set a record in this building, folks, so that's good news..That's fantastic. Thank you. I love Michigan and I must tell you, come November, to be specific, November 8th, with your help, we are going to win and we are going to win big. And we are going to the White House, and we are going to bring jobs back to our country, and we are going to bring jobs back to Michigan..It's going to be a victory for the people. A victory for the wage earner. The factory worker. Remember this, a big, big victory for the factory worker. They haven't had those victories for a long time. A victory for every citizen and for all of the people whose voices have not been heard for many, many years. They're going to be heard again. It will be a win for the voters, not for the pundits, not for the journalists, not for the lobbyists. Not for the global special interest funding my opponent's campaign. It's going to be your victory.These are hard times ... , I just got back from a tour of the suffering and devastation in Louisiana. Perhaps you can tell by the way I'm dressed. Just got off the plane. It was actually incredible. The spirit of the people is incredible. The devastation likewise they've never seen anything like it, but the spirit of the people is incredible, and honestly, Obama ought to get off the golf course and get down there..We mourn for the lives lost, and we pledge our help, comfort, and support to every last person in need. To the people of Louisiana, we are with you, and we will always be with you.In my vision, I saw not only the suffering of our people but also their strength, courage, and really unbeatable spirit. Their spirit will overcome. We have a lot to overcome in our country, especially the fact that our jobs are being taken away from us and going to other lands, and we're not going to allow it to happen, and especially, it's happening right here in Michigan.It is an amazing spirit that we will need to rebuild our country. It is that strength that we're going to need to create a new our children so much deserve. In this new -- thank you, thank you very much. In this new future, millions of workers on the sidelines will be returned to the work force. And if I'm not elected president, that will never happen, believe me.They're talking to you, they're playing you, but believe me, you know the answer. And I have to say that I've been talking about Michigan and the car industry and how your businesses and plans have been ripped out of your land, and I've been doing it for four years to the people of Michigan. Other people started talking about it last week. They're not going to do anything about it.Crumbling roads, bridges, and airports will be replaced with the infrastructure our country needs and deserves. Families trapped in welfare will be provided with jobs and opportunity. Children stuck in failing government schools will be able to attend the school of their choice. Government will become lean, effective, responsible, and honest.Our border will be protected; and our children will be safe. Very, very safe. And we will build the wall, don't worry about it. We will build the wall.Law and order will be restored, and the poorest places in our country will know safety and peace again. American values and cultures will be cherished -- and I mean cherished -- and celebrated once again.But to achieve this new American future, we must break free from the bitter failures of the past and reject the same insiders telling us the same old lies over and over and over again.No group in America has been more harmed by Hillary Clinton's policies than African-Americans, no group. No group. If Hillary Clinton's goal was to inflict pain on the African-American community, she could not have done a better job. It's a disgrace.Tonight I'm asking for the vote of every single African-American citizen in this country who wants to see a better future.The inner cities of our country have been run by the Democratic Party for more than 50 years. Their policies have produced only poverty, joblessness, failing schools, and broken homes. It's time to hold Democratic politicians accountable for what they have done to these communities. At what point do we say enough? At what point do we say enough? It's time to hold failed leaders accountable for their results, not just their empty words, over and over again.Look at what the Democratic Party has done to the city, as an example, and there are many others, of Detroit. Forty percent of Detroit's residents, 40 percent, live in poverty. Half of all Detroit residents do not work and cannot work and can't get a job. Detroit tops the list of most dangerous cities in terms of violent crime, No. 1.This is the legacy of the Democratic politicians who have run this city. This is the result of the policy agenda embraced by Crooked Hillary Clinton. Thirty-three-thousand emails gone.The only way to change results is to change leadership. We can never fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created our problems in the first place. A new future requires brand-new leadership.Look at how much African-American communities are suffering under Democratic control. To those I say the following: What do you have to lose by trying something new like Trump? What do you have to lose?I say it again: what do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? You're living in poverty. Your schools are no good. You have no jobs. Fifty-eight percent of your youth is unemployed. What the hell do you have to lose?And at the end of four years, I guarantee you that I will get over 95 percent of the African-American vote, I promise you. Because I will produce. I will produce for the inner cities, and I will produce for the African-Americans.And the Democrats, the Democrats will not produce, and all they have done is taken advantage of your vote. That is all they have done. And once the election is over, they go back to their palaces in Washington. And you know what? They do nothing for you. Just remember.So you have nothing to lose. One thing we know for sure is that if you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the same, exactly the same result.My administration will go to work for you as no one has ever done before. We will work. We will bring back jobs. We will work.By contrast, the one thing every item in Hillary Clinton's agenda has in common is that it takes jobs and opportunities away from African- American workers. It takes jobs away from all workers, because your companies are leaving Michigan. Your companies are leaving every state in our union. They're going to Mexico; they're going everywhere but here.Hillary Clinton supports open borders, which means many things, but it means people pour in and they take your jobs. Whether you like it or don't like it, they take your jobs.A fierce opposition to school choice. You need choice. You have to get your children into good schools. You do that through competition. You need choice.Her plan to massively raise taxes on small business and everyone, $1.3 trillion tax increase, whereas I'm cutting taxes very substantially for business and for the middle class.Her tremendous opposition to American energy. The opposition is fierce. And her record of giving our jobs away to many, many other countries.America must reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, who sees communities of color only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future. Hillary Clinton would rather provide a job to a refugee from overseas than to give that job to unemployed African- American youth in cities like Detroit who have become refugees in their own country.It's time to get our country back to work. And that includes an all- out effort to help young African-Americans get the good-paying jobs that they deserve.Hillary Clinton's plan would bring in an estimated 620,000 refugees in her first term at a life-time benefit cost of some $400 billion to our country, according to the Senate immigration subcommittee. Hillary Clinton wants to be America's Angela Merkel.By the way, for the price of supporting one refugee in the United States, we could support 12 in a safe zone in the Middle East or, let's say, Syria.The improved refugee screening standards I have proposed will save countless billions of dollars. It's called extreme vetting. Extreme vetting. We will invest a portion of the money saved in a jobs program for inner-city youth.The African-American community has given so much to this country. They fought and died in every war since the revolution. They've lifted up the conscience of our nation in the long march towards civil rights. They've sacrificed so much for the national good. Yet nearly four in ten African-American children still live inpoverty, and 58 percent, as I said, of young African-Americans are not working. They cannot find a job.We must do better as a country. I refuse to believe that the future must be like the past. It won't be. Our future is going to be a great future for everyone. For everyone.In a Trump administration, all workers of all colors will get priority for jobs in their own country, which is about time. I want higher wages for African-Americans, for Hispanic-Americans, and for all Americans. We want higher wages.Many, many, workers in our country are making substantially less money today in real wages than they made 18 years ago. They're working two jobs instead of one. They're working much harder as they get older, and it's supposed to be the opposite. We're going to stop it. We're going to create great jobs, and we're going to get the wages up.Hillary Clinton is a throwback to an ugly past where politicians preyed on our poor citizens while selling them out for personal gain. Promises, promises, all talk, no action. All talk, no action politicians. They talk, talk, talk. You vote them in with great fanfare, and then they do nothing.With Trump, that's not going to happen. Believe me.We must turn the page on yesterday. Only a change in leadership will produce a change in outcomes, and we can't take, as a country, four more years of Obama. And that's what you get with Hillary Clinton but probably worse.In this new American future, American workers will always come first. America First, always comes first. America First. Always come first. This will include a complete revitalization of the Michigan manufacturing sector.Now, you have to understand: the Michigan manufacturing sector is a disaster. It is a disaster. Look at your notes, look at your stats, look at what's happening to your state. You're losing your business. It's like taking candy away from a baby, and many people in this audience right now that think you have jobs, you're going to find out very soon that your company is leaving for Mexico or some other place, and you're not going to have your job very long.And if Trump gets in, those days are over, folks. Those days are over. We will be bringing back our jobs to Michigan.There will be a very big price to pay for those companies that want to leave our land, go someplace else, manufacture their goods, and sell them back with no retribution. It won't happen; there will be consequences. It won't happen. It will not happen.Michigan lost more than one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. As you know, NAFTA, one of the worst trade bills in history, maybe -- maybe the worst trade bill ever signed in the history of the world, not only in our country. It's emptied out Michigan; it's emptied out New England. It's emptied out New York state. It's emptied out so many of our great companies. They leave and they fire. We end up with devastation. We end up with unemployment. We end up with nothing.The bill was signed by Bill Clinton. It was supported by Hillary Clinton. Right here in this community, you've lost one in seven manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton put China into the World Trade Organization, another Hillary Clinton-backed deal. She backs all the deals. And by the way, she will be backing the Transpacific Partnership, TPP, if she is elected. Just mark your words, just remember, you know it's going to happen, she considered it the gold standard. All of a sudden, when she heard me talking about it, she said, "I can't win this one, " so she went against it. She'll go back immediately. And you saw that when the governor of Virginia, who's her friend, said that was going to happen.Detroit lost more than one in three manufacturing jobs following the NAFTA and WTO agreements that were supported very strongly by my opponent. No industry has been hurt more by Hillary Clinton's policies than the automobile industry, or as we call it, the car industry. It has been a total disaster.According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, before NAFTA went into effect, there were 285,000 auto workers in Michigan. Now that number is down to only 160,000, and it's going to be a lot lower because if you look at plants being built right now in Mexico, you can kiss these jobs goodbye, but not me.In 2014, General Motors announced plans to double its investments in Mexico by 2018. Not good.In April 2016, the Ford Motor Company announced plans to invest another 1.6 billion constructing an auto plant in Mexico. Mexico will become the car capital of the world very, very quickly; and Michigan is going to end up with empty buildings all over the place, unless you elect Donald Trump president, in which case it's not going to happen.The same month, Fiat Chrysler announced 1,300 layoffs. The list goes on and on.We will turn it around. We will turn it around fast. We will meet with these companies, and we will say it will not be easy for you to move your plant to Mexico. To sell your cars through what will be a very strong border, and for you not to pay tax on those cars coming in, OK?And when we tell them that there will be a substantial tax on the cars that they make in Mexico and other places, No. 1, they're not going to move in the first place, and No. 2, if they do, our country is going to make one heck of a lot of money.But to save your jobs and to do all of the things that I'm talking about, we have to win on November 8.The destruction that NAFTA started will be finished off if the Transpacific Partnership is approved. It will be almost -- nothing is as bad as NAFTA, but it will be almost as bad. We know from Hillary's closest friend, she is planning to ram through TPP if she's elected. She called it, as I said, the gold standard.Its passage would be a disaster for Michigan, in particular, for the car industry in particular, for the people of Michigan. I won't let it happen.According to the Economic Policy Institute, the United States trade deficit with the proposed TPP member countries cost over one million manufacturing jobs in our country in 2015. By far the biggest losses occurred in motor vehicles and parks, which lost nearly 740,000 -- think of that -- 740,000 manufacturing jobs. Michigan ranks first for jobs lost as a share of state workforce due to trade deficit with TPP members.Just imagine how many more automobile jobs will be lost if Hillary gets her wish and approves TPP. It will not be pretty. That's why I have announced that we will withdrawal from the deal before that deal can ever, ever, ever happen.I have have previously laid out a detailed seven-point plan for trade reform, available on my website. It includes strong protections against currency manipulation from countries like China and tariffs against any nation that cheats by unfairly subsidizing their goods, of which many of them do.My plan also includes a total renegotiation of NAFTA so our jobs can come back.And if we can't make a much, much better deal than we have right now, we will walk.We have politicians as our negotiators. We have politicians that are controlled like Hillary Clinton by her donors, her special interests and her lobbyists and they won't let her do what's right for our workers and for our country.We want to be leading the world in production, exports and manufacturing. We want jobs to leave from other countries and come into our country for a change.Another major issue in this race is foreign policy. Hillary Clinton has made one bad foreign policy decision after another. Beginning with the support for going to war in Iraq, and I opposed it so strongly.Nobody cared. I was a civilian, but I opposed it. I said you will have a total destabilization of the Middle East. It was such common sense and look what happened. Her tenure as secretary of State may be regarded as the most disastrous in United States history.But she is totally without remorse. Her failed decisions as secretary of State unleashed ISIS onto the world.But has she ever apologized for the death and destruction she has caused? No.Look at the world before and after she became Secretary of State. Pre-Hillary in the early 2009s, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence. Libya was somewhat stable. Syria was under control. The group we now know today, ISIS, was close to being extinguished. Iran was being choked by sanctions.Now, take a look at what we have. Fast forward to the present time.After Hillary, here is what it looks like. Iraq is in total chaos. Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war. A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and the United States, where we're taking in thousands and thousands and thousands of people. ISIS has been unleashed unto the entire world.Iran, the world's top state sponsor of terrorism has been put on the path to nuclear weapons, was given $400 million in ransom payment cash, where they just yesterday caught Obama in yet another lie.Hillary Clinton is a legacy of death, destruction, and terrorism. America deserves a better legacy.All of you deserve a much, much, better future.I am the change agent. I am the change agent.I am your messenger. And I said it many times, I'm nothing more than your messenger. It's a message of strong defense, common sense, take care of our vets, great education, get rid of Common Core, great health care, get rid of Obamacare, save our Second Amendment.Which is under tremendous siege right now.Hillary Clinton is the defender of the status quo or what we have. While our country lost badly under Hillary Clinton, she cashed in big time. Our country was losing. Our people were losing, but she is cashing in.Bill Clinton's speaking fees surged while Hillary was Secretary of State. He was paid almost $50 million for speeches during her tenure, an increase in 44 percent over the previous four years.By the way, things came out today that blow everything away today. Then there was all of the money funneled into the Clinton Foundation from foreign governments and corporations. It was pay for play.Yet, Hillary Clinton, who is indifferent to the suffering she has caused, has no remorse at all. She offers no apologies. No apologies for unleashing ISIS. No apologies for her open borders. No apologies for lying about her emails or about Benghazi.The only way to learn the full depth of her public corruption is to read the 33,000 emails that she deleted.And the only way to get justice in this rigged system is to show up and vote on November 8th and vote big, big, big.And I will bring your jobs back. So are you ready to vote?And what about your future? Is it going to be great, good, or terrible?Great. So if you're ready to vote for honest government and the honest government that you deserve, a Trump administration will end the corruption and restore integrity to government service. Remember, I'm funding my campaign, I'm spending tremendous amounts of money on running for office.I'm raising money for the Republican Party and the Republican National Committee, which I think is doing a very good job, but I'll tell you more about that on November 8th. I'll let you know if they do a good job or if they do not such a good job. But I think they're going to do a great job.No one will be above the law in a Trump administration. The State Department will work for the country, not for Hillary Clinton's donors.And I will work for you and I will work for no one else. I will work for you. I will never lie to you. I will never put any other interests before you and I will never, ever stop fighting for you. Never.At home, taxes will go down, especially for -- look, I mean, it's going to go down for a lot of people, for business they're going down, businesses are going to flourish, they're going to come pouring back. But taxes will go down, especially for middle-income Americans.And small business rates will be lowered to 15 percent so we can put millions of new jobs into our poorest neighborhoods.As I said, Obamacare will be repealed and replaced. Voters, not special interests, will be in charge finally. We are going to bring our country together again. We have a divided country. It's totally divided. The era of division will be replaced with a future of unity, total unity. We will love each other. We will have one county. Everybody will work together.We are going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common as Americans. It's time to break with the failures of the past and to fight for every last child in this country to have the better future they deserve.In my administration, every American will be treated equally, protected equally and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.This is the change I am promising to all of you; an honest government with low taxes, a thriving economy and a just society for each and every American. It's time to vote for a new American future.Together, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America united again, we will make America proud again, we will make America safe again and we will make America great again. God bless you.Thank you. Thank you very much, Michigan. Thank you.Thank you, everybody. So we began one hour early because the place is packed, so why should we wait?Thank you. It's great to be in Ohio.I love this state, I do, I love this state where I once worked and had great experience. And I must tell you, above all, I love the people of Ohio.And I have a very special message for you tonight. We are going to win Ohio. We are going to win the White House.And we are going to bring back your jobs that have been taken from your state and every other state in the union.We're going to negotiate fair trade deals, and what I mean by fair is great, that put the American worker first.We're going to stop the product dumping, all over the place, dumping, and we're going to stop the unfair foreign subsidies and the currency manipulation, which is a form of cheating.We are going to stop all forms of cheating. We're going to bring our workers back. We're going to bring our country back. We're going to bring companies back into our country. They're going to hire lots of people. You're going to get great jobs again. You're going to get jobs that pay you a lot more money than you're making right now, because I know what's happened to the American worker.The era of economic surrender, which is what we've been doing for so long, is over.A new era of real American greatness is ready to begin if I get elected president.No state has been hurt worse by the Hillary Clinton trade policies than the state of Ohio. Hillary Clinton backed her husband's NAFTA, one of the worst deals made in the history of our country, maybe the worst trade deal made ever anywhere in the world. That's how bad.She backed China's entrance into the World Trade Organization. She backed the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, and she backed the Transpacific Partnership, which she called the gold standard.One bad deal after another.Hillary Clinton's donors own her, they own her lock, stock and barrel. They own her, and she will do whatever they tell her to do. And when they own companies and they want that company to move to Mexico, folks, your jobs are gone. OK? You don't have a chance. That's the way the system works.Ohio and the Akron area have lost nearly one-third of the manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. One-third, think of that, and getting worse. And as you stand here tonight, there are companies right now negotiating to leave. OK? You'll find out about it, but we'll stop them, just hang in there. And it won't be hard, won't be hard.This region and this state have lost nearly one in four manufacturing jobs since China entered the World Trade Organization. Our annual trade deficit in goods with the world is now nearly $800 billion, is that's even believable, $800 billion.We have some great negotiators on our side, don't we?This subtracts directly from our growth. Our economy grew only 1.2 percent in the last quarter, that's a total disaster. That means there's no growth and it's getting worse, not better, it's getting worse.This is the legacy of Barack Hussein Obama. And Hillary Clinton will be four more years, and it will be worse, in my opinion.I am promising a new legacy for America. We are going to create a new American future. But to do that, we have to stop the Transpacific Partnership. We have to.And to do that, you're going to have to on November 8th elect Donald J. Trump as your president.Thank you -- November 8th.Our trade deficit with the proposed TPP member countries cost the state of Ohio more than 100,000 manufacturing jobs just last year. Think of it, 100,000 jobs. They're ripping them out of our country. Imagine how many more jobs would be lost if TPP was actually approved.Hillary Clinton, who called the TPP the gold standard, would approve and, by the way, 100 percent, 100 percent approval, she's going to approve it. If you remember, her closest friend, Terry McAuliffe, confirmed that that's what she's going to do with a wink and a nod.We can't let it happen. We can't let it happen. That will be, in my opinion, as bad, if that's possible, as bad as NAFTA. We will win this election and we will keep America out of TPP, among many, many other things.We will defend our freedom, our jobs and our economic independence. It's going to be America First. It's not going to be America last, America seventh, America 5th because we want to take care of some company or take care of another country that's taking care of our politicians.I put up my money, folks. You know what? If I don't make it, I've wasted a lot of money, time and energy, that I can tell you, a lot.But I think we're going to win big. I actually think there's something going on. There's something going on.There is something going on, whether it's here or in Pennsylvania or in Virginia or Florida. I go to the arenas, I start an hour, I start two hours early, and the places are packed with people outside. I can start early because they'll fill up hours before I'm supposed to be there. There's an enthusiasm that's going on that nobody has ever seen before. There is something going on.My economic plan is going to grow this economy, raise your wages, which in many cases haven't gone up in real wage for over 18 years. You're making less money now. Many of the people in this room making less money now than you made 18 years ago. You're working harder and, in some cases, you have two jobs. It's not supposed to work that way, it's supposed to be the other way. You're getting older, you're working harder, you're making less. Not going to happen.We are going to create millions and millions of new jobs.Here are a few of the things we are going to do. This you will like. A massive tax cut for working Americans and a 15 percent tax rate for small businesses.Look at those people, they're still pouring in. I love seeing it, pouring in.It's really -- thank you -- it's beautiful, beautiful, look.It's really beautiful. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.See, to me that means so much. When you see that scene, look at the doors, pouring in, all filling up, unbelievable, unbelievable.I don't know how I explain to them that we started an hour early. I don't know.Thank you, everybody. I appreciate it. Thank you.We are going to eliminate regulations that kill American jobs, and that includes getting rid of the Obama administration's new anti-energy rules that will lift your energy bills up by more than 40 percent very, very shortly.These Obama-Clinton energy restrictions are a tax on the poor, and they devastate low-income, African-American and Latino Americans. It is a disaster.Ohio gets 60 percent of its electricity from coal-powered energy. Right?Hillary Clinton says she wants to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business. Exactly, just like she wants to put the steelworkers out of business. She wants to put a lot of businesses out of business.We are going to put the miners and the steelworkers back to work. And we are going to get your energy bills down fast.We are going to repeal and replace Obamacare, saving another 2 million jobs over the next decade alone.Another major part of our agenda is law and order.More than 2,600 people have been shot in Chicago alone since the beginning of this year. This is one of the biggest differences between me and my opponent. I believe that safety is a right that belongs to all Americans -- all Americans.And I want to take this opportunity to thank the law enforcement and police officials that are here with us tonight...... and all across the country, for their service and sacrifice in these very dangerous, especially for them, dangerous and difficult times. They are terrific, so thank you to law enforcement and police.Working with citizens and police, we will bring safety to communities across this land, but especially to those and these places that have not known safety in a very, very long time.I want every parent and child in this society, including, so importantly, every African-American and Hispanic citizen, to be able to live in a safe, thriving and prosperous community. It's time.This is the new American future that we're working all together to create. Hillary Clinton is the past. She's been there forever, she's done nothing but mistakes. She's got bad, bad judgment, mistake after mistake.We are the future.Another major part of our agenda is immigration security. We need to protect American jobs. We need to protect American safety.We're going to build a wall, folks. We're going to build a wall. We're going to build it, don't worry. We're going to build a wall.That wall will go up so fast your head will spin. And you'll say, you know, he meant it. And you know what else I mean? Mexico is going to pay for the wall.Low-income workers are hurt the most by my opponent's policies. Poor Hispanic and African-American citizens are the first to lose a job or see a pay cut when we don't control our borders. So true.According to Pew Research, immigration over the next 50 years will add another 100 million to our population. We will be much, much more and it's going to be much, much more under Hillary Clinton's radical plans. She's got a radical plan. You know where she got it? She got it probably from Bernie who took her so far left. Wait until you see what she does to the United States Supreme Court. But we're not going to give her that chance, OK? We're not going to give her that chance.That's so unfair to the low-income workers, African-American, Latino, all Americans, living here today and trying to get a job and get ahead. Hillary Clinton's plan amounts to total and absolute total open borders. It's open borders.I've met with the families who have lost loved ones to sanctuary cities and violence spilling across our border, parents like my friend Jamiel Shaw, Mary Ann Mendoza, Sabine Durden and Laura Wilkerson. Hillary Clinton is either too corrupt or too cowardly to meet with the families of those killed by the policies she and Obama support.Hillary Clinton has totally has forgotten the first rule of public service. The job of an elected official is to serve the citizens of the United States. That's what the job is. And if you don't understand that, then you are not fit to run for the office of president of the United States.If you are not prepared to put American workers first, then you should not hold or seek public office. We're not working for somebody else. We're not working for another country. It's just that simple.No issue better illustrates how corrupt my opponent is than her pay-for-play scandals as Secretary of State. As the evidence has become public over the last several months, I have become increasingly shocked by the vast scope of Hillary Clinton's criminality. It's criminality, everybody knows it, everybody knows it. Our country has gotten so far behind, everybody knows it.Hillary Clinton said she turned over all of her work-related emails.She testified that to Congress under penalty of perjury. Now we learn about another 15,000 emails she failed to turn over and they have just been discovered, I guess today. And don't forget, the 33,000 emails she's already deleted.Colin Powell just proved again how dishonest Hillary Clinton is after he busted her for trying to pin the email scandal on him, one more Hillary Clinton lie.Her foundation took in large payments from major corporations and wealthy individuals, foreign and domestic, and all the while she was Secretary of State. The Clinton Foundation accepted as much as $60 million from Middle Eastern countries that oppress women, gays and people of different faiths. The foundation donors included corporations and individuals with significant matters before the State Department. Not good. And then either Hillary Clinton herself or one of her closest aides took action favorable to these donors.Her actions corrupted and disgraced one of the most important departments of government, indeed one of only four established by the United States Constitution itself.The Clintons made the State Department into the same kind of pay-for-play operation as the Arkansas government was. Now, think of what happened back then. Think about it. And I love the state of Arkansas, we're winning it big, but I'll tell you, they know what went on. They know and they're not happy.Pay the Clinton Foundation huge sums of money and throw in some big speaking fees for Bill Clinton and you got to play, you got to do what you wanted to do. It's pretty sad. This is in front of the State Department. This is in front of the State Department. And long before that, you should have seen what they were doing in Arkansas. Same old story, folks. The amounts involved, the favors done and the significant number of times it was done require an expedited investigation by a special prosecutor immediately, immediately, immediately.After the FBI and Department of Justice whitewashed Hillary Clinton's email crimes, they certainly cannot be trusted to quickly or impartially investigate Hillary Clinton's new crimes which happen all the time.Some former prosecutors have even suggested that the coordination between the pay-for-play State Department and the corrupt Clinton Foundation constitute a clear example of RICO, racketeering influenced corrupt organization, enterprise.The Justice Department is required to appoint an independent Special Prosecutor because it has proven itself to be really, sadly a political arm of the White House. Nobody has ever seen anything like this before. The Department of Justice has acted very unethically, particularly the attorney general's private, lengthy, 39-minute meeting in the back of an airplane before the department's decision not to prosecute her for crimes that would have been prosecuted against any other citizen in our country.If the Justice Department fails to do so, it will make it even clearer that a second of four primary constitutional departments have been corrupted. It's as simple as that. Every major lawyer, you look, every major lawyer is saying the same thing. They can't believe it happened. They know the facts, they can't believe it happened.The Justice Department and the FBI, they cannot believe what's going on in this country. And other countries are talking about it and they can't believe what's happening either.Here's one example of Clinton corruption. As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton signed off on a deal allowing Russians to take an increased stake in a company called Uranium One, giving up control of about 20 percent of America's uranium supply to the Russians. Wonderful deal.You know what happens to uranium? You all know what happens to uranium, and they need it in Russia.Clinton's approval of the deal netted the owners of the uranium company millions and millions of dollars. In exchange for signing off on the deal, some of the former owners of Uranium One gave the Clinton Foundation millions and millions of dollars in donations.In addition, Bill Clinton received over $500,000 for a speech to a Kremlin-backed investment firm that was a beneficiary of the deal.Here is another example of pay-for-play.In 2009, a company called Ericsson came under U.S. pressure for selling telecom equipment to several oppressive governments, including Sudan, Syria and Iran. Some these regimes used those technologies to monitor and control their own people.In June 2011, Hillary Clinton's State Department began adding goods and services to a list that might be covered under expanded sanctions on Iran and other state sponsors of terrorism.During that time, Ericsson sponsored a speech by Bill Clinton, paying him $750,000, his highest-paying speech.In April 2012, the Obama administration issued an executive order imposing sanctions on telecom sales to Iran and Syria, but those sanctions did not cover Ericsson's work in Iran.A Trump administration will end the government corruption.No one will be above the law.We will have one set of rules for everyone. In Hillary Clinton's world, we have one set of rules for her and another set of rules for everyone else.I am fighting for everyone who doesn't have a voice. I will be your voice, believe me.I just get the feeling we're going to win in a landslide.Hillary Clinton's campaign is funded by Wall Street and hedge fund managers. My campaign is powered by my money, but also by small donations from working people across this country who want their country back.The average donation last month was about $61, so beautiful to see that. And that doesn't happen often with our Republicans, and that's OK. But I'll tell you, so glad to see it. It's a movement. Folks, it's a movement that's going on. This is a movement. This is a movement.Nothing terrifies the ruling class more than when everybody working, and I mean everybody and everyday working people, give $5, $10, $15 to a campaign like ours. They are very concerned. They couldn't believe when they saw the numbers. It is in fact something very, very special that's happening because it's never really happened like this, certainly for the Republican Party it's never happened like this before.We're going to take government away from the special interests that give her tens of millions of dollars so that she can broadcast absolutely phony adds about me, and we're going to give it back to the voters.And by the way, those ads are absolutely phony with the exception of certain little parts of them. A couple of little things are correct, but we'll get over it.Come November 8th, we are once again going to have a government that serves you and your family and your country, not the special interests, the donors and the lobbyists.We are going to rebuild our depleted military, avoid needless foreign wars, build new friendships overseas and remember those three famous words: peace through strength.We are going to work with our allies to crush, defeat and utterly destroy ISIS.We are going to have a new immigration screening test to keep people out of our country who don't support our tolerant values. We are going to have extreme vetting. Remember, extreme vetting. We want people in our country, but we want people that have the ability to love us and respect us.We are also going to reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, who sees people of color only as votes and not as human beings worthy of a better future. So true. That is so true.The Democratic Party has run nearly every inner city for 50 years, 60 years, 70 years, and even more than a hundred years. They have produced only poverty, failing schools and broken homes.In the last eight years, the African-American labor force participation has declined another 3 percentage points, and it's dropped another 6 percentage points for teenagers, and that's already from the most dismal numbers in history. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. African-American home ownership has declined nearly 10 percentage points from record levels. This is just in the last short while.Also, since 2009, another 2 million Latinos have fallen into poverty. Incomes for Latino workers fell by almost another $1,000 a year. Again, by terrible standards.Meanwhile, homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore and up all over the place, no matter where you look. The level of crime in these cities is something no American should consider acceptable. It should not be considered acceptable.Our government has totally failed our African-American friends, our Hispanic friends, and the people of our country, period.The Democrats have failed completely in the inner cities. For those hurting the most, who have been failed and failed by their politicians, year after year, failure after failure, worse numbers after worse numbers, poverty, rejection, horrible education, no housing, no homes, no ownership, crime at levels that nobody's seen. You can go to war zones in countries that we're fighting and it's safer than living in some of our inner cities that are run by the Democrats.And I ask you this, I ask you this: Crime, all of the problems, to the African-Americans, who I employ so many, so many people, to the Hispanics, tremendous people, what the hell do you have to lose? Give me a chance. I'll straighten it out. I'll straighten it out.What do you have to lose?And you know, I say it and I'm going to keep saying it. And some people say, wow, that makes sense, and then some people say, well, that wasn't very nice. Look, it is a disaster the way African-Americans are living, in many cases, and, in many cases, the way Hispanics are living. And I say it with such a deep-felt feeling. What do you have to lose? I will straighten it out.I'll bring jobs back. We'll bring spirit back. We'll get rid of the crime. You'll be able to walk down the street without getting shot. Right now, you walk down the street and you get shot. Look at the statistics. We'll straighten it out.If you keep voting for the same failed politicians, you will keep getting the same results. They don't care about you, they just like you once every four years, get your vote and then they say bye-bye.What do you have to lose? And you know what? I'll do a great job. I'll do a great job.But most importantly, I want to talk to you about really what you have to gain. Those hurting in our country have so much to gain by joining our campaign for a new and more inclusive American future. Tax reforms will add millions of new jobs and thousands of small businesses.My energy reforms will create millions of new jobs and lower the price of your energy bills which right now are going through the roof.My trade reforms will raise wages, grow jobs and add trillions of dollars in new wealth to our country and to our people.My immigration reforms will protect your jobs and stop businesses from exploiting visa programs that hurt poor workers and everybody else.My infrastructure plans will rebuild your roads, your bridges, your tunnels, your airports, which are in terrible shape, the worst shape they've been in in over 50 years.My regulatory reform will make it easier for African-American small businesses to thrive and for young children to live out their dreams without crime and without being scared to walk down the street.My promise of school choice -- you know what the word choice is, it's called competition -- my promise of the word choice, charter schools and merit pay for teachers will help low-income students in our inner cities.Teachers, one of the most important professions; no matter what you do, there is nothing so important.We love our teachers. We love our teachers. We've got to take care of our teachers. Got to take care of our teachers.Hillary Clinton discriminates against poor African-American children by opposing school choice, for votes. She wants the votes.My government reforms will make your voice heard, not the voice of the special interests. Every insider getting rich off of our broken system is throwing money at Hillary Clinton.It's the powerful protecting the powerful. Excuse me, I used to be there, I know the system very well.I know the system better than anybody. It's insiders fighting for insiders. But I am fighting for you. I'm fighting for you.Every day, you turn on the nightly news, you hear about how some self-interested banker or some Washington insider says they oppose the Trump campaign. That's because I don't need them, I don't want them. I'm going to do what's good for you.Or some encrusted old politician says they oppose my campaign, I certainly don't need them. Or some big-time lobbyist says they oppose Donald Trump's campaign, because I don't want the lobbyists. I've had plenty of lobbyists, they do a good job, they get you whatever you want.I wear their opposition as a badge of honor, believe me, right here.Because it means that I'm fighting for real change, not just partisan change or change that's going to make Hillary richer. I am fighting for all of us across the country, and we're fighting for peaceful regime change in our own country. That's what we have to have. We need it in our own country.We have got a country that is so divided. Seldom has it ever been so totally divided. And it's very, very sad. Thank you.The media/donor/political complex that's bled this country dry for years has to be replaced with a new government of, by and for the people.I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally.And all of these countries that are ripping us off and taking our jobs, all of those countries will start to respect us again, folks.We will reject bigotry and hatred, we will reject oppression in all of its forms and seek a new future of security, prosperity and opportunity, a future built on our common culture and values as one American people.I am asking, so importantly, where we have already seen a tremendous amount of time, it doesn't mean anything if on November 8th we come in short. It'll look good in the history books, a lot of people will say congratulations, you're not a politician, nobody's ever done this before. But you know what? It doesn't mean anything unless on November 8th we go out and we win. Believe me.You've got to get every one of your friends, you've got to get every one of your family, you've got to get everybody to go out and watch and go out and vote. And when I saw watch, you know what I'm talking about, right? You know what I'm talking about. I think you've got to go out and you've got to watch.I'm asking for your vote so that I can be your champion in the White House, and I promise you that's what I'm going to be.To every parent who dreams for their children and to every child who dreams for their future, of which there are so many, I say these words to you tonight: I am with you, I will fight for you, and I will win for you.Together, we will make America strong again.Together, we will make America safe again.Together, we will make America great again.Thank you! God bless you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you, everybody. I am so happy to be back in the great state of Texas. Thank you. Thank you.The people of Texas are proud. They're independent and they are free.There is no better place to deliver the message I have to deliver tonight than right here, right in the middle of freedom. Thank you.Tonight's message is about re-declaring our independence as a country.On November 8th, a very, very important date, we are going to declare our independence from special interests, corrupt politicians, and I might add, very corrupt politicians.And from a rigged system that benefits only the insiders. We're going to bring our jobs back. We're bringing them back to our country. And we're going to create millions of new jobs.We are going to declare our independence from politicians who don't listen to us and media executives that don't care about us. And by the way, who never report our massive and very, very friendly crowds. That's for sure.We are going to declare our independence from rising crime, soaring poverty rates and crushing, crushing debt. We're going to declare our independence from failures of the past and create a new American future.Once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.Americanism, not globalism, will be our credo.It's going to be America First from now on. America First.Thank you.Let me tell you what this new future looks like. We're going to cut taxes and create millions and millions of new jobs.And we are not going to allow other countries to steal our businesses any longer.We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare. It's a disaster.We're going to appoint judges who will support, defend and uphold the Constitution of the United States.We're going to save and cherish our Second Amendment, which is under siege.We will ensure every veteran in this country has the right to seek medical treatment at a V.A. facility or with a private doctor of their choice if they don't get that kind of care.We are going to eliminate job-killing regulations. We're going to unleash an American energy revolution like you've never seen before.Let's talk about another issue that is so important to our future and the future of our children. That's the issue of crime. Violent crime is rising across the country. More than 2,700 have been shot in Chicago alone this year, 2,700 people shot.No American should consider this level of crime acceptable. Every American has the right to live in safety and peace. A Trump administration is going to restore law and order.And while we're at it, let me take this opportunity to thank our wonderful police and law enforcement officers.This state...This state has known unbelievable heartache in the recent days after the murder of five police officers and the wounding of another seven in the assault. And you know what we're talking about, the horrible assault on Dallas. We pray for the families and hope for the speedy recovery of the wounded.To all law enforcement in America, we are with you, we support you and we will always stand with you. We love you.Together, we'll...Together, we will create a safe community for every citizen in the land, but especially those and for those who have not known safety in a very, very long time. And there are plenty of people in our country who have not known safety for a long time. That includes appointing an attorney general and a secretary of Homeland Security who are completely committed to upholding the law.I will appoint federal officials and investigators who will work hand-in-hand with police and citizens to dismantle gangs, cartels and criminal syndicates terrorizing our people.And they are all over the place. I will appoint prosecutors who will go into the most dangerous communities in America and work to liberate our citizens from violence and fear. All citizens deserve to be protected. No American will be left behind.I want every African-American parent in this country and all parents in this country to be able to raise their children in safety.I want to ensure every African-American child in this country and all children in this country who are put on a ladder to success. We are going to put people in this country on the ladder to success. A good education with a great paying job, that's success.We're going to have school choice.We're going to have charter schools and merit pay for our great teachers.My opponent, Crooked Hillary Clinton...... discriminates against African-American students by opposing school choice and because she's owned and paid for by the education bureaucracy, and of course, Wall Street. That we know.No one owns me. No one owns me. Believe me.Nobody. I answer only to the American people. That's why I'm doing this. That's why I'm doing this.Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.In a New York Post column recently, Deroy Murdock published data confirming what I've been saying about the devastating economic conditions in the African-American communities. Murdock confirms these facts. The overall labor force participation rate...The overall labor force participation rate for Black Americans has slipped from 63.2 percent down to 3.2 percent recently. This metric also slump for Black teenagers from 29.6 percent to 27.7 percent, down 6.4 percent. Going in the wrong direction. Everything going in the wrong direction. Our country is going in the wrong direction.The percentage of Black Americans in poverty has grown under Obama, the Census Bureau reports, from 25.8 percent in 2009 to 26.2 percent, up too much. Too much. The number of Blacks on food stamps soared under Obama to 11.7 million people in 2014, up 58.2 percent.Also, from Obama's arrival through last June 30, the percentage of Black Americans who own homes plunged 41.7 percent.Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. That's no good and not fair. Fifty-eight percent of young African- Americans are not employed.Homicide is up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. and up more than 60 percent in Baltimore, and up throughout all of our inner cities. Violent crime rose 17 percent in the 50 largest U.S. cities. This is the legacy of President Obama and Hillary Clinton. It can't get any worse.To those suffering, I say what do you have to lose in trying Trump? What do you have to lose? I will fix it. I will fix it.I will fix the problem. With rates of crime, with rates of poverty like you've just heard, what do you have to lose? I will fix the problem. We will fix it.Let me tell you what we have to gain. More jobs. We'll bring them in. I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, believe me. Believe me.Higher wages and a massive reduction in the terrible crime plaguing our inner cities. We are going to turn it all around. Give Donald Trump a chance.I say this to the African-American community, give Donald Trump a chance. We will turn it around. We will make your streets safe so when you walk down the street, you don't get shot, which is what's happening now. That's what's happening now.Success has to be created for everyone and it has to be available to everyone. That's how we're going to create a new American future. But to make every American safe and prosperous, we must address one of the most vital issues of all, border security.We are going to build the wall.And who is going to pay for the wall?Mexico is going to pay for the wall.We have massive trade deficits with Mexico, with China, with Japan, with everybody. Those deficits will go away. We're going to bring our jobs back. You're going to be so happy. But Mexico in fact will pay for the wall 100 percent.We are going to enforce the law. We're going to protect your jobs and your wages. We are going to protect them. Your companies are not going to flee our country, think they can make their product and sell it back into our country without serious repercussion.We are going to keep our country safe. According to the Texas government, nearly 200,000 illegal immigrants were booked into Texas jails between 2011 and 2016.Collectively, those arrested were responsible for more than half a million criminal offenses, including 1,055 homicides, 5,516 sexual assault charges...... and more than 50,000 charges of either burglary or theft.Not going to happen, folks. We're not going to let it happen to our country. It's enough. Yet Hillary Clinton wants a totally open border.She wants catch-and-release.She wants Obamacare and other things for illegal immigrants, in many cases, more than our great veterans get.She has said she's going to give massive amnesty in her first 100 days.She wants to gut Immigration Enforcement. The Immigration people to such a great job, but they have no leadership at the top.She supports sanctuary cities.She wants to let people overstay their visas without removal.One lawless order after another. We must not let that happen. We are going to vote for President Donald Trump. And we're going to stop it.We love Texas.Love Texas.Hillary Clinton also wants a 550 percent increase over Obama, who's letting them come in by the thousands, in Syrian refugees. We have no idea who they are, where they come from, no paperwork. The great Trojan horse. It's going to be trouble, folks.There have been hundreds of immigrants and their children charged with terrorism inside the United States since 9/11 and a number of terrible attacks like the Boston bombing, San Bernardino and Orlando.Yet Hillary Clinton wants to fling open the flood gates to our borders, let everybody come in, open up our country, let people pour in. We don't know anything about them. It's going to be a nightmare for our country, just like it's turning out to be an absolute nightmare for Europe. Just ask them what's going on.I want to create safe zones in the Middle East. And we'll get the Gulf States to pay for them. We owe almost $20 trillion, folks. We're not paying. But we want to help people.Look, I have as big a heart as anybody, believe me. We have to help people. We're going to build safe zones in the Middle East. We're going to get the Gulf States to chip in to pay for them because they have the money. They're not doing what they're supposed to be doing.My plan suspends visas when we can't perform effective screening and it puts forward a new ideological screening program to keep out people from our country who don't support our values.I'm calling it extreme vetting, extreme vetting. After all, that is what taking the oath of citizenship is all about.Thank you. Thank you.Is there any place that's better to be or safer to be than a Trump rally?Right -- right in the heart of Texas.This election, so important, will decide whether or not we have a border. This election will decide whether or not we have a country.Today, I met with the moms of incredible American children killed by illegal immigrants, as a result of the policies of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.Hillary Clinton will never meet with these families. She will never hear their incredible, but so sad stories. She will never hear. She doesn't have the heart, believe me.I would like to invite the mothers who lost their children to illegal immigration to join me on the stage right now. These are great people. They're here with the incredible Remembrance Project. Come on up.These are incredible people. The suffering that the families have gone through is incredible. And Jamiel Shaw, another friend of mine, what he's gone through is just unbelievable. So I just want to thank you. I want to say that we are with you 100 percent. And your children did not die in vain because we're not going to allow it to happen to others. So thank you very much.Give them a big hand. Thank you very much. Border Patrol, amazing. Come here, Shaw. Come here. Say something. Thank you.Incredible people. What they've gone through, incredible.Thank you, fellas. Thank you. And so many more hundreds, thousands, so many more.We will never let these families down. On immigration Clinton is bought and paid for by special interests. She's never going to do the right thing.This corruption relates closely to another corruption scandal that strikes at the heart of our country and our democracy. Every day more and more alarming facts come out.What are you going to do?The scandal I speak of is the State Department's pay-for-play. It's right now being looked at very seriously. Probably nothing will happen, even though it should happen, because she is being protected by our country like nothing ever before.And it's a disgrace. And as the world watches, it's such an embarrassment to everyone in this big arena. It is a total embarrassment. If the secretary of State can be bought or bribed or sold.Look, what's happening right now with government favors then the whole American system is threatened. So many people for doing so far less are right now suffering tremendous repercussions, tremendous, for doing so far less. For doing a tiny fraction of what Hillary Clinton did. It is a disgrace.This is a threat to the foundation of democracy, a threat. This is what happens in third world countries. It's the failed conditions of people. And this is why they flee to America and they come here and they get no better.Our laws and our country is being jeopardized. America can never elect a candidate who, like Hillary Clinton, did government favors for those giving her family and her foundation massive amounts of cash.The new revelations about Hillary Clinton's email scandal made clear we have only seen the tip of the iceberg.Hillary Clinton is desperate to cover up her crimes. And she has been unsuccessful. Except that some people that head up some very important groups have said it's OK, even though it was never OK for others. That's why she deleted 33,000 emails and she got away with it, sort of.That's also why she lied repeatedly to Congress and to the American public. She said she never sent or received classified materials.That was a lie proved over and over again. She claims she used her email server for the convenience of using only one device.But she used multiple devices. So that was yet another lie.She said she turned over all of her work-related emails. But the FBI found thousands she never turned over. And now just recently found another 15,000 more.That was another lie. Can you imagine? Can you imagine what she had on the 33,000 deleted emails? Can you imagine?She said she sent nothing marked classified, a total lie unmasked to the entire world. And more, and more to come.She said her server was secure and had no breaches. But we know now what was completely unsecure and the FBI director said it could be easily hacked by foreign enemies.More Clinton lies. Clinton said her lawyers reviewed all of her emails before destroying them. That was a lie. And why were her lawyers let free when they destroyed the emails?Lie after lie after lie. Hillary Clinton is totally unfit to hold public office.It is impossible to figure out where the Clinton Foundation ends and the State Department begins. It is now abundantly clear that the Clintons set up a business to profit from public office. They sold access and specific actions by and really for I guess the making of large amounts of money.Today a phone log was released for Cheryl Mills.I will say this. The Bernie protestors were much better, more...They were much -- they had much more vim and vigor.These have very, very, very little energy.So you had a phone log today that was released. She was Secretary of State Clinton's chief of staff. You would expect the log to contain only calls concerning Department of State business. But Cheryl Mills received 148 messages between 2010 and 2012 from the chief operating officer of the Clinton Foundation. No other individual or group appears to have left that many messages.We also just learned today that more than half the people who met with Hillary Clinton from outside government while she was secretary of State were donors to the Clinton Foundation.The specific crimes committed to carry out that enterprise are too numerous to cover in this speech. I walked through two of them yesterday. The sale of U.S. uranium to Russia and the exemption of a telecom giant from sanctions after they paid Bill Clinton a tremendous amount of money for a speech.The UBS saga is another one. Shortly after Hillary Clinton became secretary of State, she went to Geneva and intervened in a dispute concerning secret identities of Americans. That's nice.She negotiated a very good deal for UBS, and a very bad deal for law enforcement. Of the 52,000 accounts the U.S. was seeking, the government settled for only 4,450. Her intervention was described by Treasury as "unusual."Before her unusual intervention, UBS had donated only $60,000 to the foundation. After the Clinton favor for UBS, it opened its wallet for big bucks. And out came a $600,000 contribution, a $32 million loan, and a $1.5 million speaking fee for Bill Clinton.This is corruption. And this is why I have called for a special prosecutor to look into this mess.Justice is supposed to be blind. It's never supposed to be for sale. Hillary Clinton thinks she's above the law. Come November the American people will show her that she is not. We will have a tremendous victory on Nov. 8. We will win and we will make America great again.You will be voting for justice, fairness, equality and jobs. We will be working on making our inner cities and African-American people who have suffered so long in these unsafe, horrible places. They will be so proud of what takes place over the next four years if I'm elected president.You will also be voting for a more inclusive country where no one, no one is left out.Another two million Latinas have joined the ranks of those in poverty. No good. Incomes for Latino households have declined by nearly $1,000 under President Obama. The number of Latino children living in poverty increased by 15 percent.Our pro-growth, pro-jobs, pro-family agenda is going to bring back hope to every community in our nation.I will dedicate myself to restore the ladder of success to all of those who live in poverty, of which there are tremendous numbers. We reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, who sees communities of color only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future. She is a disgrace.The era of division is coming to an end. We will create a new future of American unity. Are you ready for real, real, real American change?You'll get it. And it'll be beautiful.It's time to emphasize what we all have in common as Americans. We will promote our common culture, values and principles. We will be one nation. We will be one people. We will share together one great future.It's going to be America First again.We will make America proud again.We will make America prosperous again.And we will make America safe again.Friends, citizens and fellow Americans, we will make America great again. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Nov. 8, go out and vote. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.Wow. What a crowd. Beautiful. Beautiful. What a crowd.Thank you, everybody.I am thrilled to be with you today in Tampa.We love Tampa. As you know, Florida is my second home, place I love. It's an amazing state and it's filled with so many incredible people. That's why I like it, the people.For the next 75 days, we are going to have to work very hard together to win the White House on November 8th. We're going to win.And we just had a great poll come out from Florida University just about a half an hour ago that we're leading by two points in the state of Florida.Our victory on November 8th will be a victory for the people. For the people. It won't be a victory for the pundits. It won't be for the special interests that put up all of that Hillary money. And it won't be for the failed politicians. It will be a victory for you.And maybe most importantly, for your family, for your country. It will be a victory for jobs, jobs, jobs. We're going to bring our companies back. We're going to have jobs back in this country again. We're bringing out jobs back. Manufacturing is down 40 percent. We're bringing our jobs back. And companies aren't going to leave our country so easily. There will be consequences when they do. It won't be so easy for them.But it'll be a victory also for security, for prosperity and it will be a victory for American independence. So important.We will reject the failures of the past and create a new American future where every child -- African-American, Hispanic -- all children can live out their dreams together in peace and in safety.We will bring back our jobs. We will rebuild our depleted military.We love our military. It's been so badly depleted, folks, at a time when we need it just about the most ever. We are going to rebuild our depleted military and no better people than are in our military. But we're going to rebuild it. We're going to take care of our great veterans. They have been left behind. We're going to take care of our great veterans. We're going to unleash American energy. Restore law and order.And we will make government honest once again, which it is not now, believe me.The stakes in this election could not be higher. Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes very substantially and send jobs to other countries. That's what she wants to do.We are going to cut taxes dramatically and bring thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs to our shores.And that is something I look so forward to doing. No one can do jobs like Trump. If you look at Florida, whether it's Doral or whether it's so many of the jobs we have on the beach. We have so many jobs in the state of Florida. And I'll tell you what. Those people love what we've done for them; high wages, great jobs, health care, education. We take care of our people. We have to take care of the people of our country. Believe me, we are not doing that.Hillary Clinton wants to pass more terrible trade deals like the Transpacific Partnership. She wants to pass it.We are going to stop the TPP, totally renegotiate NAFTA, one of the worst trade deals ever made by mankind, and protect every last American job. We're going to protect your jobs. They're not going to be disappearing from you anymore.People in this room 18 years ago were making more money in wages than they're making today. And today, they're working harder and in many cases to a certain extent because of this horrible Obamacare, they're working two jobs. So they're getting older, they're working harder and they are making less.Not going to happen that way, folks. Not going to happen.Of course, I'm working harder also and getting old. That's for sure.Hillary Clinton wants to expand the job killing regulations destroying small businesses in America. Regulations, by the way, are out of control in this country. We're going to cancel every needless job-killing regulation and put a moratorium on new regulations until our economy gets back on its feet. And even then, they're not going to be brought back. They're not going to be brought back.They're not going to be brought back.You know, we need safety. We need a little environmental protection. We want clean air, we want clean water. But what they've done on top of that has been insane. It's killing our businesses and it doesn't allow our businesses to compete with other countries, and you're losing your jobs. We will create great numbers of American jobs beyond anything you've ever witnessed.I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. The greatest.And speaking of jobs and speaking of the fact that we're going to do a great job on jobs, evangelicals, people of religion, Christians, Jews, Catholics, Muslims, everybody, you've got to get out and vote on November 8th.Hillary Clinton wants to put the miners and the steelworkers out of work. You've heard her.You've heard her. We are going to lift restrictions on all American energy and we are going to stand up to foreign cheating -- which is what they're doing, they're cheating -- that threatens steel production in America. They're dumping all over this country because they want our steel to go out of business so they can make this deal for us and charge us plenty. Not going to happen, folks. Not going to happen.Hillary Clinton wants to expand job-killing Obamacare and put government in charge of your health care. You know where that leads.They tried that in Venezuela. You see what's happening? Not working. And many other places, it doesn't work. We are going to repeal -- and this is so important. Are you ready? We are going to repeal and replace Obamacare and create...And by the way, I have to tell you -- always gets one of the most incredible applause -- people are dying with Obamacare. It's a disaster. Your premiums are going up by 40 percent, 50 percent.The number on November 1st -- and they're trying to move the date because it's an election changing number -- is going to be close to 50 percent. It could even be more than that. They want to make it in December. They don't want to reveal the numbers.Obamacare is a disaster. In the great state of Texas, they had almost a 50 percent increase going through Blue Cross Blue Shield -- almost a 50 percent increase, and the people are furious. You're going to have more than that. And folks, it's not going to work.It's dying of its own weight. Regardless of who becomes president, it is dead. She's going to try and save it by raising everybody's taxes. Believe me, we can come up with a plan that will be so much less expensive and so much better. And we will do that.We will create choice and competition, and that's going to really make it swing. It's going to be an amazing thing to watch.All right. Hillary Clinton wants to trap children in failing schools, 100 percent. I want school choice. Choice. Choice. So you have competition. I want charter schools and I want merit pay for our great teachers. We should have merit pay. Nobody more important than a teacher. We should have merit pay for those teachers that are outstanding.We are going to put our kids onto the ladder of success, and that is a good education and then a great job. That's what we need.This is so important for our inner cities. Our inner cities are suffering like never before. They have been run by Democrats for so many years. In some cases, over 100 years. Almost every inner city is run by the Democrats. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. Think of it. Fifty-eight percent of African- American youth are not employed, 58 percent.More than 2,700 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year. Not a long time. Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore. The Democratic Party has run, as I've said, nearly every inner city in this country for 50 or 60 or in some cases over 100 years. Over 100 years. They've produced only more poverty, only more crime, only more joblessness and broken homes all over the place at record levels.To those suffering and hurting and the people left behind, I say vote for Donald Trump. Vote for Donald Trump.What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? It cannot get any worse. And believe me, I'm going to fix it. I'm going to make it so good.So to the African-American voter -- great people. To the Hispanic voter who have been absolutely treated terribly, I say, what do you have to lose? What? I will fix it. I'll be able to make sure that when you walk down the street in your inner city or wherever you are, you're not going to be shot. Your child isn't going to be shot.Last night, I brought some incredible families up on stage with me, people that lost their child to illegal immigration, people whose child has been killed, people who have lost children -- devastated, can never be the same -- to people that came into the country illegally. We're going to fix that problem. And we're going to fix our inner cities. And I say to the African-American parents, you have a right to walk down the street of your city without having your child or yourself shot. And that's what's happening right now. That's what's happening.To the Hispanic parents, you have a right to walk outside without being shot. You have a right to good education for your child. You have a right to own your home. You have a right to have a good job.The Democrats and Hillary Clinton policies, once she gets -- if she gets your vote -- and I think we're going to do great with African-Americans and with the Hispanics. But once she gets your votes, you know what she does? Bye-bye, folks. See you in four years. That's what it is. She's going to do nothing. She's going to do nothing. And you know what the truth -- she doesn't have the stamina to do it even if she wanted to, believe me.I'm asking for the honor of your vote so that I can fight for you. That's African-American, that's Hispanics and that's all Americans. We're going to make it better. Much, much better.Because Hispanic citizens have been suffering under this president, too. Since President Obama came into office, another two million Hispanics have joined the ranks of those in poverty. Two million have joined the ranks of poverty, not of wealth.I want you to join the -- the ranks of people that are making phenomenal livings. That's what you want to join.The number of Hispanic children living in poverty increased by 15 percent in that short period of time. So I'm going to fight to give every Hispanic citizen in this country a much better future, a much better life. And they know it. And they know it.And I don't know if you've seen what's happening, but over the last three weeks, the polls with African-American folks and Spanish- speaking folks, the Hispanics, Latinos, have gone way up. Way up. They've gone way up.Because you know what? African Americans are tired of being used by these phony politicians. Hispanics are tired of being used by these phony politicians. And everybody else in our country is tired of being used by these phony politicians. Believe me.And part of that better future means securing our border to protect the jobs of all of the people living here today. And that includes African-Americans, Hispanic Americans and all Americans.We're going to protect your jobs. We're going to also bring safety, but we're going to protect your jobs because your jobs are not being protected. Hillary Clinton wants to have a totally open border where people can just pour in and take your job and lots of other things happen.We are going to enforce our laws, remove people who overstay their visas, dismantle the gangs and cartels and protect jobs and benefits for hard-working American citizens.And many of them are African-American, by the way, and many of them are Hispanic. We're going to protect your jobs. That includes protecting the jobs and wages of the Hispanic citizens that and living right here in Florida. So many living right here in Florida.And this is their number one complaint because they don't know if the next day they're going to have a job because of people flowing in illegally into the state and into the country. They deserve to have their jobs protected from illegal immigration and broken visa programs. And they are broken.All Americans from all backgrounds have a right to have their jobs protected in their own country. Hillary Clinton would rather give a job to an illegal immigrant than to an unemployed Hispanic citizen, an unemployed African-American citizen or even to a veteran. Believe me.It's going to be America First from now on. America First.Thank you.At the core of our America First agenda are three words, so important. These are so important. They solve so many problems. Are you ready?Jobs, jobs, jobs.That's why at the center of my economic plan is a tax cut for small businesses down to 15 percent from 35 percent.Business will flourish. Jobs will pour into our country and new ones will be created. And I mean created all across the land. We're going to create jobs. Thirty-five percent -- we're one of the highest taxed nations in the world, if not the highest. And we're going to be one of the lower taxed nations in the world. There are over 600,000 Hispanic-owned businesses here in Florida. Hillary Clinton's plan would smother them with new regulations, drive up their electricity bills and then raise their taxes to as much as almost 50 percent higher than they're paying now.Family-owned businesses would take a second hit with a 45 percent death tax so that you have a business, you want to leave that business to your children, you've been paying taxes all your life on that business and now the children have to pay so much that normally they have to either sell the business or close it up. It's not a fair tax. More in Florida than anywhere else because you have so many family businesses that cannot afford to pay a death tax.A Trump administration will be a true friend to small businesses and to all working Americans, that I can tell you.That means bringing down taxes, bringing down the price of energy and bringing down job-killing regulations that cost our economy as much as $2 trillion a year -- $2 trillion a year, remember, $2 trillion. Does anyone know what a trillion dollars is? We've got two of them.We're also going to dramatically simplify our very, very complex tax code.H&R Block will be voting against Donald Trump, that I can tell you. Our current -- and you understand that. Our current tax code is so burdensome and complex that we waste nine billion hours he year in tax code compliance. That will end under a Trump administration. Hillary Clinton wants to make taxes even more complicated and will raise taxes by $1.3 trillion on you and everybody else.Her anti-energy regulations will be a tax hike on the poor. Your energy bills are going to go through the roof, folks. According to Heritage Foundation, by 2030, the Obama-Clinton energy restrictions will eliminate another half a million manufacturing jobs, reduce economic output by $2.5 trillion and reduce incomes by $7,000 a person per year. That means you're making less money in 2030 than you're making right now. We've already done that 18 years ago. Right now as a country, we have no growth. We have no growth. You saw that. A Trump administration will end this war on the American worker and unleash an energy revolution that will bring vast new wealth and power to our country.According to the Institute for Energy Research, lifting the restrictions on all sources of American energy will very simply increase GDP by more than $100 billion dollars annually. We need that so badly. Add over 500,000 new jobs annually and increase annual wages by more than $30 billion over the next seven years.It will increase federal, state and local tax revenue by almost $6 trillion over four decades, increase total economic activity by more than $20 trillion over the next 40 years. My energy plan will help put trillions of dollars back into our economy. We'll be able to fix up our military, we'll be able to take care of our vets, we'll be able to help you with your Social Security, which everybody else wants to cut to shreds.Now, with all of that being said, my all-time favorite subject: trade. How stupid are we to allow this to happen to us? Florida has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, a Hillary Clinton-backed deal, one of the worst transactions ever signed in the history of our country. Probably not as bad as will be proven in the future as this horrible, incompetent Iran deal, but we'll get that -- we'll get to that a little bit later. That's another beauty.Honestly, these people don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they're doing. They don't know what they are doing.Florida lost one in five of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton and China -- and he put China into the World Trade Organization, which was also backed by Hillary.Our trade deficit with the world is now nearly $800 billion a year. So we work hard, we work so hard, but if you don't have the right leadership at the top, you're sort of wasting your time because you're not going to get it done. Think of it. We have a trade deficit -- trade deficit with the world of almost $800 billion dollars.Like Bernie Sanders said, she has terrible, terrible judgment. Got no judgment. Look at what she's got, folks. Take a look at the emails. She's got no judgment.The good news is if we win on November 8th, these jobs are coming back. They're all coming back.Here are seven steps to bring back our jobs and create millions of new jobs. Number one; I'm going to withdraw the United States from the Transpacific Partnership talks which have yet to be ratified. So important.Number two; I'm going to appoint the toughest and smartest trade negotiators to fight on behalf of American workers so that we make great trade deals with other countries instead of incompetent and bad trade deals.We'll bring our jobs back here instead of having -- it's like a one-way -- it's like a one-way bridge, it all goes out of this country. The only thing that comes into our country is drugs. They pour into the country, the cash pours out. We don't do anything right. We have such bad leadership.I'm going to direct the secretary of commerce to identify every violation of trade agreements that a foreign country is currently using to harm American workers, of which there are many.Because they rightfully think we're run by incompetent people. So I don't blame China, I don't blame Japan and Mexico and these other countries. They're getting away with murder, but if I were them, I'd be trying to do the same thing. I blame our leaders.I want us to be on the winning side. We will be on the winning side if you elect me on November 8th. I promise.I will then direct all appropriate agencies to use every tool under American and international law to end these abuses. We're being abused.Now, the worst abuser is China. I like China. I've made a lot of money with China. I've done very well with China. They're tenants of mine -- their biggest bank in the world is a tenant -- condos, deals, office buildings, Bank of America buildings, so much. I've done great with China. We can do great with China, too.They have no respect for our country. They have no respect for our leadership. And we don't blame them, we don't blame them. We want to put ourselves in that position very soon. You watch. And they'll like us better than they do now. They don't like us. They're building a massive military fortress in the middle of the South China Sea that they're not allowed to do.They're doing that, and yet, they're ripping us economically. We have tremendous power over China -- economic power -- tremendous. We don't do anything. They build and build and build, and they didn't get environmental impact statements when they decided to rip up the sea. They said -- Sunday night, let's build. Monday morning, they were digging. A little different than our country, wouldn't you say? A little different. A little bit different.Number four; I'm going to tell our NAFTA partners that I intend to immediately renegotiate the terms of that horrible agreement signed by Bill Clinton to get a better deal for our workers. And if we don't get the deal that we want, which has to be good and has to make up for all of these years of abuse and lost time, then we will walk away, which is fine.I'm going to instruct my treasury secretary to label China a currency manipulator, the greatest in the world. Any country that devalues their currency in order to take unfair advantage of the United States and all of its companies who can't compete will face tariffs and taxes to stop the cheating. And when they see that, they will stop the cheating.I don't think our politicians even know what's going on. And they will stop or we're going to take in one hell of a lot of money, I'll tell you that.I'm going to instruct the United States trade representative to bring trade cases against China, both in this country and at the WTO, World Trade Organization. China's unfair subsidy and its behavior is prohibited by the terms of its entrance into the WTO, and I intend to enforce our rules. That's all. Very simple.And they know it's coming. They've called a lot of friends of mine. They know it's coming. They say, "What do we do? What do we do?"If China does not stop its illegal activities -- remember this. Our trade deficit with China is approximately $505 billion a year. Think of that, $505 billion. Somebody said, "Oh, but you'll stop trading with China." I said, "Is that good or bad? You tell me." We have to straighten it out, folks. We can't have deficits of $500 billion. We can't have deficits and we can start making things right here again, and it'll be very nice.And I'm going to use every lawful presidential power to remedy the trade disputes, including the application of tariffs. And I'll tell you, we're going to probably have to at least use them in some cases because they have to understand, we're not playing games any longer, folks. We're not playing games.If we take these steps, jobs and factories will come roaring back into our country. We can use the new money to rebuild our roads, bridges and airports. Manufacturing is also a matter of national security. It's national security. Our manufacturing is being decimated. Decimated. We're not going to have manufacturing.I am so tired of seeing manufacturing buildings that employed thousands and thousands of people being turned into nursing homes. It's fine, but you know what, that's not -- we have to -- we have to -- we have to build. We have to build, we have to manufacture.We need to build, produce and create right here in America. Right here in America.Let me tell you a few more things that we're going to do. We're going to end government corruption.Hillary Clinton ran the State Department like a failed leader in a third-world country. That's what it's run -- it's run like a third- world country. She sold favors and access in exchange for cash. She sold it. She sold favors, she sold access, and wait until you see when it's revealed all of those people.Now, it looks like it's 50 percent of the people that saw her had to make contributions to the Clinton Foundation. Wait until you see ultimately what she did for all of those people. Wait until you see. These are not people that go in, as I said, and talk about, how are you feeling. The people she met with outside of government...The people she met with outside government as secretary of State, so many of these people made contributions. She even deleted 33,000 emails to hide evidence of her crimes. It's impossible to tell where the Clinton Foundation ends and the State Department begins. She then lied about her crime to Congress over and over again. She lied to Congress. I don't know if Congress is going to do anything about it, folks. I'm so sick of looking and seeing and I hear reports, they don't do anything. Congress ought to act. She lied to Congress 100 percent. Everybody agrees, and it takes so long for them to act. By the time they act, you're going to say, "What was it?" You won't even remembered what happened. Let Congress act today. Let Congress act immediately.The FBI did not act. I have such respect for the FBI. I am so disappointed. I am so disappointed. I love the FBI. I have such high regard -- high respect for the FBI. How did they let that happen? She was so guilty. She was so guilty.The world is laughing at us, folks. And then you have Bill Clinton meeting with the attorney general in the back of an airplane for 39 minutes.And he said they were talking about golf and their grandkids. Give me a break.And very importantly, Bill Clinton, after all of that and after the beautiful gift he was given, Bill Clinton essentially called the FBI director, James Comey, a liar when he said the FBI director was spouting bull. Can you imagine? Man, they don't realize that they owe the FBI director their political lives for refusing to recommend prosecution for Hillary Clinton's many, many crimes. And then he calls the director a liar.He saved Hillary Clinton from facing justice for her illegal and corrupt actions. They were illegal and they were corrupt, and the FBI saved her. And I would imagine many people within the FBI are extremely embarrassed. Extremely.Remember, Bill Clinton was impeached for lying and obstructing justice and also had to give up his law license -- people forget. Hillary Clinton created an illegal private email server, deliberately, willfully and with total premedication -- premeditation. It could the first way was right, actually. You know, I might like the first way better.Premedication, that's a very. Premedication -- I think I like it.All right, premeditation. I love that. She did so to cover up a vast pay for play scheme. Her actions made our enemies vulnerable to foreign hacking and we are vulnerable. That's what's happened. We've become so vulnerable to foreign hacking and betrayed the security and safety of the United States, our military and all of our people.Her actions are criminal. They're purposeful and they're totally calculated. She knew what she was doing. That's why I call for a special prosecutor to look into this.The problem is, with the administration rigging the system -- it's a rigged system, folks -- to protect her vast criminal behavior, the real jury is going to be the American voter on November 8th.Hillary Clinton thinks she is above the law. She's got -- and honestly folks, she's got nothing going. She's got nothing going. There's nothing there. There's nothing going. There's nothing for you. That's going to be four more years of Obama, four more years of ISIS knocking the hell out of us all over the place and everyone else.Got nothing going. Come November, the American people are going to prove that she is not -- she is not a person worthy of becoming the president of the United States.We don't want four more years of Obama, and I think she would be worse than Obama.People don't know where she is. Her supports have really -- her supporters have very little enthusiasm. The only people enthusiastic about her campaign are Hollywood celebrities, in many cases, celebrities that aren't very hot anymore and Wall Street donors, special interests, lobbyists, etcetera that want to control government, not to the benefit of our country, but to the benefit of their wallet.Even her protesters don't have the spirit that Bernie protesters had. We had some protesters last night. We had a massive rally last night and we had some protesters. It's like they raised their hand and people -- they're so nice.The cameras don't even cover her protesters, which is bad. I like it when the camera covers the protesters because then they finally show how many people we have at these things. Her protesters have so little enthusiasm for her and they're so boring that the cameras don't follow them. So it's sad when you think about it.I like the Bernie protesters better. They had enthusiasm.By the way, a reminder to everyone here, register to vote. You've got to register to vote. We have a movement going on, folks. This is a movement. This is a movement.I'm going to Mississippi in a little while. We have tens of thousands of people. We're only confined by the size -- look at this -- back to the corners. We're only -- we're only confined -- we set a record here today. We always set records. We always do.In four, instances for some reason, we have beaten Elton John's record, who's a great guy. We've beaten Elton John -- and he has pianos, right, I don't have a piano. No piano, but we have beaten four times Elton John's record at arenas.Together, we're going to restore ethics and honesty to our government. We're also going to restore safety to our country.Hillary Clinton -- and maybe this bothers me almost more than anything else because I know bad things are going to happen. Hillary Clinton wants to increase by 550 percent over Obama -- thousands and thousands of Syrian refugees coming into our country.Overall, her plan would bring in 620,000 refugees from all refugee-sending countries in her first term. This is at the same time we and Europe and everywhere else is experiencing tremendous problems not only with attacks but with lone wolf attacks. That's sickos that by themselves do tremendous destruction.You look at San Bernardino. You look at wherever. You look at Orlando. You can look anywhere you want. The lone wolf attacker, the sicko -- the sicko -- and we're allowing them in by the tens of thousands.How stupid are we? How stupid are we? And you mark my words, I've been very good at predicting things. Been very, very good. People are writing me letters saying you predicted -- I predict a lot of things. Bad, bad things are going to be happening with these people pouring into our country. Bad things are going to be happening. Bad, bad things. You watch.We're going to build a wall, don't you worry about it. We're going to build a wall. We're going to build the wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall 100 percent.And it's going to be a big wall. It's going to be a real wall. It's going to be as beautiful as a wall can be, but it's going to be a wall. And we're going to have protection for tunnels so that people can't tunnel under. We can easily have protection. But we're going to have protection for tunnels.We're going to have a real border. We're going to have a real wall. Mexico is going to pay for it. Mexico, right now -- we have a trade deficit with Mexico of approximately $60 billion a year. Believe me, the wall is peanuts compared to the kind of money they're making with the United States.And speaking of that, and I've said this, we are losing so many jobs to Mexico and other places. There have to be -- there have to be repercussions from this. We cannot allow this to happen. We cannot allow these countries because their leaders are smarter than our leaders, because their negotiators are better, because we have frankly, very, very stupid people representing us.We cannot allow this to continue to happen, whether it's Carrier Air Conditioning or Ford or any other -- I could name hundreds -- hundreds and hundreds of companies, millions and millions of jobs. Millions and millions. We cannot allow this to continue to happen. We won't have a country any longer.I'm going to suspend immigration wherever effective screening cannot take place and I am going to institute a new ideological screening program to keep out people who don't share our values of love and respect.Moving forward, we are going to start promoting American values once again. It's time to put the era of division behind us and to embrace a new American future based on our common values and our principles, our principles.And if people don't like our values and if people don't like our principles, tell them don't come in.I used to do that also, folks. I hate to tell you, it's very easy. I know the business better than anybody. I know this subject better than anybody who's ever run for any office, OK?Sixteen months ago, I was the fair-haired way, and all the sudden, I'm an outsider. It took just a few words -- "I'm going to run for president." I became an outsider.It's insiders fighting for insiders, but I'm fighting for you. That's why I'm doing this.I built a great company -- believe me, I didn't need to do this. This is a lot of work, a lot of energy and I'm spending my money, by the way -- a lot of energy. We are -- we are doing well. It's a movement. It's a movement. A real movement. We're going to get it turned around. We're going to stop crime. We're going to bring back our jobs. We're going to straighten out our inner cities. We're going to do a lot of things.And by the way, we are going to save our Second Amendment which is under siege.If in San Bernardino or Orlando or Paris -- where by the way, they have the toughest gun laws in the world. If you had this gentleman right there or this woman right here, right, or that gentleman right there standing there with a gun strapped to his or her side when these animals came in and they started shooting people that had absolutely no protection, it would have been a whole different story, folks.Would've been a whole different story. And if they had even an inkling, if they thought that guns were in the room, they probably wouldn't have even gone there in the first place, OK? Very simple. So we're going to protect our Second Amendment.So I'm an agent of change, I am. And Hillary Clinton is a total defender of the status quo. I don't think you can be too happy with the status quo.I'm asking for your vote so we can create the new American future.This includes millions of new jobs through lower taxes, less regulation and trade deals that put America First. It includes the appointment of justices to the United States Supreme Court...... who are going to protect our freedom, and that includes they'll be protecting the Second Amendment.So important, folks. Justices of the Supreme Court. Remember, Justice Scalia, great man. We're going to try and get people of that thought process, that thinking, that intellect. But we already have one, and if she chooses four or five -- it could be as many as five, could be a record in the history of this country of new judicial appointments. If she puts people in that are radical left, you have got yourselves a whole different country.We're going to have a new foreign policy that focuses on defeating ISIS, not nation-building. We've tried the nation building, doesn't work, not going to work, never going to work. Hillary Clinton's reckless policies unleashed ISIS onto the world in the first place. She will never have the judgment or the stamina to fix the problems that she created. She created so many problems.It was just announced in a new poll that people feel the country is less safe today than it was before 9/11. Pretty bad poll, that's pretty bad. With all the money we spent, all the trillions and trillions of dollars that we spent, people feel less safe today than they did then.In the meantime, our country is dying, our infrastructure is sick, our roads are terrible, our bridges are falling. Our schools, you take a look at what's happening there. Our tunnels. Everything is bad. And all of that money was spent. It was spent and wasted by people that didn't have a clue.We're going to change it around, folks. We're going to defeat terrorism and keep the terrorists the hell out of our country.And finally, we're going to create a more inclusive society where no American is left behind. We're going to bring back jobs, opportunity and hope to every community in our nation, every community. Once again, we're going to have a government of, by and for the American people.This is going to be your country, your government and your really great future. It's going to be a great future. The rule of special interests is over, it's gone if I win. If I don't win, it will be worse than ever before, you will see. You will see. But hopefully, you will not get a chance to see because we're going to turn it around. We're going to turn it around and it'll be a beautiful thing.Thank you.We will bring America together as one country again. We are so divided. We are so terribly divided so many ways. President Obama is a great divider. He doesn't know how to put things together. He doesn't have a clue. We will bring it together as one country, united as Americans in common purpose and common dreams. And that's what it is, it's dreams. We dream of having it right. It will be right. It will be right.We're going to have a driving economy.We're going to have a strong, strong, strong border that people are going to respect. And the drugs are not going to be flowing across like gravy.We're going to have a powerful military, not a depleted military like we have now.And our vets are part of our military. Our vets are going to be treated incredibly well, as they have to be. They're our great people.We're going to have a peaceful nation, a rising standard of living.This is what I promise you. Let's get out there and win on November 8th.And if we do, if we do, we will make America wealthy again. We have to be wealthy.We have almost $20 trillion in debt. We have to make our country wealthy again. And we will make America wealthy again. We will make America proud again -- proud.You won't be embarrassed like you are now, with the Iran deal or when you see $400 million being sent on airplanes to terrorists.Who, by the way, won't use that money for terror; they're gonna put that money in Swiss bank accounts. They've got plenty other money to use for terror.Think of these people. They have a plane arrive with $400 million in cash. All different denominations. They've got it right. $400 million in cash. Nobody could believe it.And it turned out that it was actually for the hostages, despite the lies of Obama. It was for the hostages.He couldn't have been happy when his representatives said it was for the hostages. Couldn't have been happy.You know, it's like Obamacare, if you remember, 28 times, "Keep your doctor, keep your plan." Remember? Over and over and over again. And then some Democrats, they actually voted because of that. Over and over he lied and he lied and he lied.Well, he lied about the hostages too. $400 million in cash; he lied about that.We will make America safe again.And we will make America great again for each and every American.You will be so proud of your president. And more importantly, you will be so proud of your country.Thank you. Thank you and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.Senator, Governor and Rudy, thank you very much.Wow, what a group! What a group!Very excited, very, very excited to be with you tonight. Thank you very much.The people of Jackson and the state of Mississippi have such incredible energy, that very powerful word "energy, " unbelievable, incredible energy and spirit, folks. Thank you very much.And thank you for all the support you've given me right from the beginning. I will not forget it, Mississippi. We love Mississippi right from the beginning, right from the beginning.This is the spirit we need to rebuild our country a hundred percent.And this is our chance to break free from the bitter failures of the past and to create a new American future.To everyone watching across our nation right now, to everyone who has been let down by our terrible, terrible politicians, I am asking for your vote on November 8th.This is your chance to remove the special interests from their throne of power and to once again have a government of, by and for the people.No one will be left behind anymore.I'd like to take this moment to send our thoughts and prayers to everyone at the American University in Kabul, Afghanistan. They are going through a lot.Anyone who will not name our enemy is not fit to lead our country.Eight years of Obama/Clinton policies have sacrificed our safety and undermined our freedom and independence. Our jobs have moved to other countries. Islamic terrorism has spread within our shores. And an open border has crushed low-income workers and threatened, and I mean totally threatened, our security.The issues we face here in America are similar to the issues faced in Britain during their referendum on membership in the European Union. This is the movement known as Brexit.On June 23rd, the people of Britain voted to declare their independence, which is what we're looking to do also, folks...... from their international government which hasn't worked. They voted to break away from rule by large corporations and media executives who believe in a world without borders.They voted to reclaim control over immigration, over their economy, over their government.Working people and the great people of the U.K. took control of their destiny.The people profiting from the rigged system, and it is rigged, we're finding it out every single day, the multinational banks, the media celebrities, the big donors tried to scare the British people out of voting for change. The same thing is happening right here in the United States. It's happening.All the people benefiting from our rigged system don't want things to change. They want you to believe things can't be changed.And they can so easily, so easily and so smartly.And we all know things have to change. We have no choice. And they have to change right now.Hillary Clinton, who has been on the wrong side of history in every major decision, she's only made bad decisions, she's got bad judgment, she doesn't know what she's doing, folks.She got this one wrong, too.She got this one wrong, too, folks. She got this one wrong, too. She gets them all wrong. She gets them all wrong, doesn't she? She really got the emails wrong, that I can tell you.And now Hillary wants to surrender America to globalism, just what we don't want.She wants a country without borders. She wants trade deals written for the benefit of foreign corporations. She wants a government that ignores the will of the people.She wants to sell out American security to the Clinton Foundation for a big, fat pile of cash.It's hard to tell where the Clinton Foundation ends and where the State Department begins.According to the Associated Press, more than half the meetings she took as Secretary of State with people outside government were with foundation donors.Hillary Clinton does not believe in America First. We believe in America First.She would rather give a job to a refugee from overseas than an unemployed American veteran or to an unemployed African American or Hispanic.The job of a public official is to serve and protect the citizens of the United States...... not illegal immigrants, not foreign nationals seeking entry, but the people living here lawfully today, including millions of African-American and Hispanic citizens, millions, millions being treated very, very unfairly, I can tell you that.My focus will always be on the well-being of more than 300 million American citizens who call this country home and who love their country.I will fight for their security. I will fight for their jobs. We will not let jobs be taken out of our country, be ripped out of our country and moved to Mexico and many other countries. We will not let it happen anymore.We'll be fighting for their jobs and we'll be fighting for your families, that I can tell you. It ends. What's been going on ends on November 8th.We will have one American nation, not divided, we will be together. Hillary Clinton has betrayed her duty to the people. November 8th is our chance to re-declare American independence.This is a great honor for me. I am going right now to invite onto the stage the man behind Brexit and a man who led brilliantly the United Kingdom Independence Party in this fight and won despite all odds, despite horrible name-calling, despite so many obstacles.Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Nigel Farage.Wow! Thank you, Nigel.What a job! What a job he did. What a job he did against all odds.Thank you, Nigel.That was some job that he did against all odds. Everybody said it couldn't be done. And by the way, it's looking like a very wise decision right now by the voters, so I really congratulate Nigel and I thank you for being here. Thank you.And if I may, we had some tremendous polls come out today. I won't bring it up, I refuse to mention it, but they were very good. We're leading in a lot of locations.Thank you.It's time for America to recapture, like you just heard, to recapture our destiny. Our government leaders and our media have totally lost touch with the people. They have, they have totally lost touch.You need no better evidence of that then the fact that the media ignores the plight of Americans who have lost their children to illegal immigrants, but spends day after day pushing for amnesty for those here in total violation of the law. We can't allow that.Why do our leaders spend so much time talking about how to help people here illegally, they're here illegally, and they spend and they work and they try so hard to help them, but they don't try helping American citizens, some of whom have been devastated by what's happened to their children and their families? Devastated.My priorities will never change: jobs, wages and security for Americans.And the immigration policy I support as president must pass these three tests. First, it must improve jobs and wages for United States citizens.We have people in this room who were making more money in real wages 18 years ago, were not working as hard as they're working now and they've gotten older, not supposed to be that way, and in many cases and largely because of the disaster known as Obamacare  they have to hold two jobs, not one, but two jobs and, in some cases, three jobs.Not going to happen, folks, not going to happen.Second, it must improve the safety and security for United States citizens.Third, it must improve the quality of life for U.S. citizens. The quality of life, our quality of life is going down.Our level of security, you look back years, you're more insecure now in terms of security than you were 10, 15 and 20 years ago.Hillary Clinton's radical immigration plan fails these tests and it fails them very, very badly. Her push for open borders will lower the wages and kill the jobs of lawful American residents.Her support for catch-and-release will put innocent American lives at risk and already has, just like President Obama released the illegal immigrant at the border who then killed magnificent, magnificent Sarah Root.Yesterday I met with her mom, Michelle. Hillary Clinton only talks about the separation of families who choose to come here illegally. I want to focus on the American families who have been permanently separated from their children because of the sanctuary cities and open borders that Hillary Clinton so strongly supports.Where is the sanctuary for American children? Where is that sanctuary? The dreamers we never talk about are the young Americans. Why aren't young Americans dreamers also? I want my dreamers to be young Americans.Hillary Clinton also wants to push to bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term...... a large number of whom come from large countries where women and gays are horribly brutalized, which will weaken our tolerant way of life.I only want to bring people to our country who share our values and love our people and are capable of loving America.Importantly, I will also create millions and millions of jobs for our people.We are going to cut taxes, reduce regulations, fix our trade deals, unleash American energy and repeal and replace the horror show known as Obamacare.We are going to create jobs, jobs, jobs!I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, believe me.So we're going to have millions and millions of jobs, jobs like you have never seen in this country before, because our jobs are being stolen from us, our companies are being stolen from us, our manufacturing is down by 40 percent and 50 percent and numbers that nobody even believes. Those days will be over if Donald Trump is elected president of the United States, believe me.Rising incomes, higher wages, thousands of new companies all across this nation, they'll come in and they'll form. We are going to renegotiate the worst trade deal ever made, not only in this country, but anywhere in the world, known as NAFTA and signed by Bill Clinton.We're going to stand up to China on trade. We're going to keep out of what will be a disastrous trade deal, Transpacific Partnership, TPP.It will not happen with me. It will absolutely happen with Crooked Hillary, believe me.This state has lost more than 40 percent of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, and it's lost one in four manufacturing jobs since he put China into the World Trade Organization, both deals supported by Hillary Clinton. Horrible deals, destructive deals, what those deals have done to our jobs and to our country.We are going to bring back jobs to Mississippi...... and in North Carolina, which has treated me so well, and Ohio and to Michigan where our auto plants are leaving and leaving and leaving and going to Mexico and other places, and to Pennsylvania, where I went to school, and to Maryland and all across this land. We're going to bring our jobs back and we're not going to let our jobs be taken away.Thank you. Thank you.And I'm going to make it my personal mission to bring opportunity, safety and prosperity to our very, very troubled inner cities.The Democratic Party has failed and betrayed the African-American community.Democratic crime policies, education policies and economic policies have produced only more crime, more broken homes and more poverty than we've ever had in those communities before.Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. More than 2,700 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of this year alone.Violent crime has risen 17 percent, and in America's 50 largest cities it's only going one way, folks, and that's up. Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. and more than 60 percent from last year in Baltimore.The Democratic Party has taken the votes of African Americans totally for granted, and they've done nothing in return.They've just assumed they'll get your support and they've done nothing, absolutely nothing to deserve it.It's time to give the Democrats some competition for African- American votes and for Hispanic votes.It's time to rebuild the inner cities of America and do it properly. It's time to reject the failed leadership of a rigged political system. And I was the first to use that term, it's a rigged, disgusting system.To those hurting and suffering and left behind, I say, what do you have to lose by trying something new? What do you have to lose by voting for Donald Trump for president? What do you have to lose? I will fix the problem. I will fix the problem.If you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the same horrible results.But I also want to talk about what you have to gain, right? Right? What do you have to gain? We will create school choice and allow charter schools to absolutely thrive.What else will we gain? We will empower young Americans to pursue their dreams of opening a small business and make it easier for them to get the credit that they need.We will renegotiate our horrible trade deals to bring back jobs and opportunity. And the African-American community and the Hispanic community will be our biggest beneficiary of that.We will lower taxes and unleash job creation and we will tap into trillions of dollars in new energy wealth that we never even knew we had before.We will protect your jobs from illegal immigration and broken visa programs. And we will rebuild the roads, the bridges, the infrastructure, the tunnels, the airports in your communities and we will rebuild it with our companies, with our steel and with our labor.Hillary Clinton is a bigot who sees people of color...... only as votes, not as human beings worthy of a better future. She's going to do nothing for African Americans. She's going to do nothing for the Hispanics. She's only going to take care of herself, her husband, her consultants, her donors. These are the people she cares about. She doesn't care what her policies have done to your communities. She doesn't care.Remember this. You've had her policies, Democrats running some of the inner cities for 50, 70, 80, even over a hundred years. And look what you have right now, poverty, no education, crime, you can't walk down the street with your child. We're going to fix it, we're going to fix it.Hillary Clinton has no remorse. I will fight to create a better future for every American. The hedge fund managers and Wall Street donors are throwing money at Hillary Clinton to try and stop our change agenda.Of course, if they start looking at the polls they may stop doing that.They're going to have to start studying those polls. That's why you need to come out and you have to vote, you have to vote.That is why you must make your voice heard on November 8th, have to do it.Another crucial issue in this race is national security. Hillary Clinton may go down as the worst Secretary of State that has ever served in that office.Let's look back at the Middle East at the very beginning of 2009 before the Obama/Clinton administration, that I call a catastrophe, took over. Libya was stable. Syria was under control. Iraq was experiencing a reduction in violence. The group that would become what we now call ISIS was close to being extinguished, would never have happened. Iran was being choked off by economic sanctions.Fast forward to today. After spending $4 trillion, maybe $5 trillion, nobody even knows how much money has been sucked out of our country, what have the decisions of Obama/Clinton produced?Libya is in ruins. Our ambassador and three other brave Americans are dead. And ISIS has gained a new base of operations, they're all over the world. Syria is in the midst of a totally disastrous civil war. ISIS controls large portions of the territory. A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and is threatening the United States because Hillary is allowing these people to pour into our country. And we don't know who they are, where they come from. We know nothing. Iraq is in chaos and ISIS is on the loose. ISIS has spread across the Middle East and into the West. At the same time, ISIS is trying to infiltrate refugee flows into Europe and definitely, folks, definitely, I've been very good at predicting, definitely into the United States.Iran has become the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, is now flush with up to $150 billion in cash released by the United States, plus another $400 million in cash, cash, cash ransom...... that President Obama said had nothing to do with ransom, had nothing to do with the hostages, and his own people said he was wrong.He lied. He lied. Just like he said Obamacare, "keep your plan, you'll keep your doctor, " 28 times, "keep your plan, keep your doctor." And because of that lie, Democrats that would have never passed it passed it and now they regret that they passed it because it is a total disaster.Worst of all, the nuclear deal puts Iran, the number-one state sponsor of radical Islamic terrorism, on a path to nuclear weapons. In short, the Obama/Clinton foreign policy has unleashed ISIS, destabilized the Middle East and put the nation of Iran, which chants, constantly chants "death to America " in a dominant position of regional power and in fact aspiring to be a dominant world power. And we put them there over the last three years!This is the legacy of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton: death, destruction, terrorism and weakness.But Hillary Clinton's legacy does not have to be America's legacy. We're going to end the era of nation-building, a disastrous concept, a disastrous era, and create new foreign policy joined by our partners in the Middle East that is focused completely on destroying ISIS. We have no choice destroying ISIS.We will extend a hand of friendship to any nation that will work with us in good faith on this vital mission.I have a message for the terrorists trying to kill our people, our citizens, trying to hurt the world, but trying to hurt the United States: We will find you, we will destroy you and we will win!Thank you. Thank you.This is not only a military fight, but it will also require cyber warfare and financial warfare. It's also an ideological fight. We will confront directly the hateful, it's just so hateful, ideology of radical Islam and promote American values and American culture and America's system of government.Only by standing up for and supporting, we have to stand up for and support, our values can we become a united country once again...... a country of great jobs and wealth, a country of security and freedom, a country of strength and unity. The future is limitless. All we have to do is believe in America once again. We have to believe it can happen. It can happen.We will put back our faith in America's special destiny. We will lift the burdens on small business which is being driven into extinction by what's happening in our government. We'll create a level playing field for American workers. We'll never ever let what's happened to them happen to them again. We'll establish justice and opportunity and safety in every community in the land.I am asking for the vote of every citizen in this country, African American, Hispanic, all Americans, all Americans who want a better, brighter and stronger future for yourselves and for our country.I am the change candidate. This is our moment to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever before.I am asking for your vote so I can be your champion in the White House. I will be your champion and I will work hard to be your champion.And I won't be playing golf instead of going to see the people in Louisiana who have been devastated by floods.I'm going to be the champion to every parent who dreams for their children. And to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight: I am with you, I will fight for you, and we will win for you, we will win.Together we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, we will make America great again.Thank you and God bless you. Thank you, Mississippi. We love Mississippi. God bless you. Thank you.It is terrific to be back in New Hampshire. Really a very special place to me because this is where I won my first primary, my first victory. Who knows? If I didn't win here, who knows where I'd be. Maybe I'd be building buildings or something. But who knows.But I want to just thank everybody. It is an honor. And I made you a promise. I made the people of New Hampshire a promise. Because you heard me talking about it and I talk about you all the time.I said that we are going to stop the epidemic of drugs pouring a across our southern border, heroin in particular, where you have a massive problem. We will stop it and then we will work hard to get all of those people that are hooked, we'll get them off it, one way or the other.We're going to work very hard. I made you that promise. You watch. I fulfill my promises. I've developed such a deep affection for this state and let me just tell you, you're going to be very, very happy if I win. That I can tell you.Over the next 74 days -- that's what we have, 74 days. Started on June 16th of last year. And it seemed like such a long, long ways. And now we're down to 74 days. We're going to work very hard together.We're going to win this state just like we did in the primaries and we are going to win the White House. We are going to win for the American people. Our victory is going to be a victory for the great majority of Americans whose voice has not been heard for many, many years. Year after year we live under a Washington regime, and that's what it is, it is a regime, that ignores your demands, rejects your cries, and they are cries for help in many cases.And they are being rejected. And that always puts your needs first. Your needs are going to come first. The real divide in this election is not between left and right, but between everyday working people and a corrupt political establishment that works only for itself.This election is a chance for the great majority of decent citizens to end the rule of a small group of special interests and to return that power to the voters or, as we would say, to the people.Hillary Clinton believes only in government of, by and for the powerful. I am promising government of, by and for the people.And this fight, which will be a big one, we are taking on...... let's just win on November the 8th.That would be the ultimate and that's what we're going to do because in this fight, we're taking on some very entrenched and well financed interests. Money is pouring in to her campaign by the special interests, the lobbyists, the donors, the people that own the companies that are moving your jobs to Mexico and other places.These are the same people who pay Hillary $10,000 a minute for a speech. Not a good deal.Not a good investment. These special interests are the same people who own the newspapers that cover up her crimes. They're covered up. These are the same Wall Street firms who paid Hillary Clinton a quarter of a million dollars each time she delivered her secret remarks, that nobody knows what she said.They're the same people who paid Bill and Hillary Clinton over $150 million for speeches since Bill left the office.And who donated countless millions of dollars more to the Clinton Foundation.But you have the power, with your vote -- and by the way, New Hampshire is a very, very important state in this election; very important.And if I win New Hampshire -- OK, when I win. OK.OK, when I win. Just remember this. This is a promise. New Hampshire is staying right where it is in terms of primary. It's an unbelievable state and an unbelievable tradition. And there's a lot of talk of moving you to the back of the pack. That's not going to happen. It's not going to happen.So, I give you my word, New Hampshire stays right where it is. OK?So you have the power, with your vote, to defeat those special interests and put the people back in charge once more like it's supposed to be. This has been a very historic week in American politics. The voters have always known that our leadership in Washington, D.C. is corrupt, and that the system is very badly rigged -- a word that I believe I used first, that has been copied all over the place.It's badly rigged and it's broken. But this week, the curtain was truly lifted. The corruption was revealed for all to see. The veil was pulled back on a vast criminal enterprise run out of the State Department by Hillary Clinton.As the Associated Press documented, more than half of the meetings Hillary Clinton took as Secretary of State with people outside government were Clinton Foundation donors.Hillary's chief of staff received more messages from the Clinton Foundation's chief operating officer than just about anybody else; 85 donors alone that she met with as secretary gave the foundation $156 million.And I know many of these people. I know many of these people. These are not people that are going up to pay their respects and say, "Madam Secretary, how are you feeling? Isn't it a beautiful day? The weather is so beautiful."These are people that want things for their donation. These are people that expect things for their donation. And when you follow it out and you see the people that left her office, you take a look at what those people, those companies, and those countries got, believe me, you will find out it is plenty.On top of that, Bill Clinton's total speaking fees rose 44 percent while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, often raking in money from people who had business or matters before the State Department. Very simple. As I said weeks ago, Hillary Clinton ran the State Department like a personal hedge fund. It's hard to tell where the Clinton Foundation ends and where the State Department begins. Access and favors were sold for cash. It's called pay for play.Over and over and over, people who donated to the Clinton Foundation, or who gave money to Bill Clinton got favorable treatment from Hillary Clinton's State Department. The examples are too many to name here in full. And I've gone over, I will tell you, I've looked at so many over recent days, but they include the deal to sell 20 percent of United States uranium to Russia.Or the very favorable treatment given to UBS, big bank giant. It includes -- we're all sick of it.It includes the exemption of telecom giant Ericsson from government sanctions. It includes efforts to put a foundation donor with no national security experience at all onto a highly sensitive national security panel that he wanted to be on, with access to top secret information. It includes foundation donors getting lucrative contracts in Haiti, all while the people of Haiti suffered horribly and are not, by the way, big fans of the Clintons. But these examples are only the tip of the Clinton corruption iceberg. Hillary Clinton's actions constitute all of the elements of a major criminal enterprise. You know it. The government knows it. And she knows it. She created a private -- she created a private, illegal mail server in order to hide her corrupt dealings.That's all it is, folks. Very simple. She knew what she was doing 100 percent. She did so knowing full well it would put American lives at risk by making classified information highly vulnerable to foreign hacking. And that's what happened.And by the way, people that do two percent of what she did, their lives have been destroyed. But she didn't care, as long as it helped her get away with her crime. No risk to America was too great. It didn't matter to her. And now she's running for president.Then to further cover up her crime, she deleted 33,000 emails to keep them out of the hands of the authorities and the American public. As a further element of the criminal coverup, she claimed under penalty of perjury that she turned over all of her work-related emails.We now know this to be one more massive Clinton lie and deception. The FBI found thousands of work-related emails she failed to turn over, including the new discovery this week of 15,000 more work-related emails she did not disclose.What is being uncovered now is one of the most shocking scandals in American political history. It's Watergate all over again. It's Watergate. And she's being totally protected by our government. Our Secretary of State sold her office to corporations and foreign governments, betraying the public trust, putting innocent lives in danger, and then she went to great lengths to hide, delete, destroy and lie about the evidence.Just like her lie that she never sent any material marked "classified." Total lie. Lie after lie after lie. This is the corruption we expect to see in a third-world country, but not in the United States of America.Just imagine the damage to our security, to our integrity, to our standing in the world. And believe me, the world is laughing as they watch.If Hillary Clinton is allowed to sell the Oval Office in the same way she sold her office as Secretary of State, and she can't help herself. She cannot help herself. We cannot let this happen, can't let it happen. We must vote on November 8th to keep the American government from being sold to the highest bidder.Vote to save your country. So important. So important.You folks have no idea how important you are in this room and this state. So important.And by the way, folks, if you're looking at the poll numbers, take a look. We're doing very well. They're very well.Very well. So vote to protect your family. Vote for honesty, integrity, and accountability now, as all of these revelations have been discovered -- some this week, many this month.Hillary Clinton has been hiding. She's been hiding. Where is she? Although I hear for the first time in a long time she'll be making some kind of a quick statement tonight, but she's emerging, not to take the responsibility for her unethical and criminal conduct, but instead to make one of the most brazen attempts at distraction in the history of politics.Now, I've not seen what Hillary is going to say, but I've heard about it. And in a sense, I don't want to dignify her statements by dwelling on them too much.But a response is required for the sake of all decent voters that she is trying to smear. The news reports are that Hillary Clinton is going to try and accuse this campaign, and all of you, and the millions of decent Americans at record levels.There has never been anything like this. This is a movement we have. This was set up. This event was set up late last night, and look what happens. Look how many people.It's a movement, folks, like they've never seen before.And going to accuse decent Americans who support this campaign, your campaign, of being racists, which we're not.It's the oldest play in the Democratic playbook. When Democratic policies fail, they are left with only this one tired argument: You're racist, you're racist, you're racist. They keep saying it. You're racist.It's a tired, disgusting argument. And it's so totally predictable. They're failing so badly. It's the last refuge of the discredited Democrat politician. They keep going back to the same well.But you know what? The people are becoming very smart. They've heard it too many times before. The well is dry. The well is dry.This is the year the American people, who believe in much better and much more honest politics say the word "enough, " "enough."This is the year that the people who have been betrayed by Democratic policies, including millions and millions of African American and Hispanic American citizens, reject the politicians who have failed them over and over and over again, for 50 years, for 75 years, without break, for even in some cases 100 straight years.They failed them, and you're going to vote for a change. It's time.As I've discussed for many days now, Democratic politicians have run nearly every inner-city in America for the 50, 60, 70, 80, 90, 100 years. Their policies have produced only more poverty, total joblessness, and failing schools.Every policy Hillary Clinton supports is a policy that has failed and betrayed communities of color in this country. But she doesn't care. She's too busy raking in cash from people and rigging the system and taking the African American vote and the Hispanic vote and saying, "We're going to do a great job." And right after the election, it's "bye-bye, I'll see you in four years."Nothing happens. Nearly four in 10 African American children live in poverty; 58 percent of African American youth are not working; more than 2,700 people have been shot in Chicago this year alone. These are the consequences of Hillary Clinton's policies and the policies of people that think like her.She has brought nothing but pain and heartache and broken promises to your inner cities. On top of that, she wants to raise taxes on African American-owned businesses to as much as nearly 50 percent more than they're paying now.I am lowering taxes very, very substantially. She is asking for a major tax increase.She supports trade policies that have closed factories in African American communities and put millions of African Americans and others, all of us, out of work. So many people out of work. She supports radical regulations that puts Americans out of a job, and that raise the price of theirSo many people out of work. She supports radical regulations that puts Americans out of a job, and that raise the price of their energy bills -- you all see it -- beyond anything that you thought would ever, ever happen.She supports policies on crime that make communities less safe, and that make it harder to raise your children in security and in peace. You see it all the time. The inner cities, parents walking with their beautiful child, and they get shot. They're shot, their child is shot, often killed. Folks, what do you have to lose? What do you have to lose?Donald Trump will fix it. We're going to make it better. We're going to help education. We're going to straighten out crime. We're going to create jobs. We're going to bring our companies back. What the hell do you have to lose? It can't get any worse than what it is right now.You know, I said this a few weeks ago and I mean it so deeply in my heart, we will fix it. We will get it fixed. They're never going to do it for you. It's words, it's politicians. You know what I always say about politicians? All talk, no action. They're controlled by their lobbyists and their special interests and their donors.Me, I put up my money. I'm into this thing for a lot of money, I want to tell you. Nobody's going to be calling me and asking for favors. We want to move a company to Mexico, please make sure it happens. Let me tell you, I'm going to make sure just the opposite. I'm going to make sure it doesn't happen.I believe every single parent in this country, and especially in the inner cities, has to right to raise their children in safety. Walk down the street in safety. Not be shot at. This is one of the great civil rights issues of our time. And people don't talk about it that way. This is a civil rights issue.The Democrats have run your inner cities. They're making a fortune for themselves, and they're destroying, they're destroying. Remember this. The people that live there, they are destroying those people. This is actually a civil rights issue. And it's a disgrace, and they should be ashamed of themselves.But Hillary Clinton doesn't want to talk about any of this. She can't defend her record. She's got a horrible record. And, as Bernie Sanders said, she's got very, very bad judgment. She really does. All you have to do is look at what she's done.She doesn't have one single proposal that hasn't been tried and failed. She doesn't have one idea that does anything but destroy jobs for African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans, and all Americans in our country. It's going to be a disaster. Her trade deals were a disaster. This will be catastrophic for our country. So what does she do when she can't defend her record? That's right. She lies. She lies. And she smears. And she paints decent Americans, you, as racists.She bullies voters who only want a better future and tries to intimidate them out of voting for a change. I'm for change. She doesn't want change. As I discussed yesterday these are the same tactics, the establishment power is used to try to scare the British people out of voting for change also. It didn't work there, and it's not going to work here.Call me Mr. Brexit. The American people are ready to vote for freedom, opportunity and justice. They are ready to take back control of their own futures. You have to take it back. We will take it back. The movement will take it back together. It's time the Clintons were held accountable for their inappropriate conduct...Thank you. You can see the feeling in this country. You can see by this, by these outbursts, you can see the anger, the anger at what she got away with but maybe she won't get away with it. But you can see the anger when law enforcement allows her a free pass on something that was so bad.You can see the anger in this room. You can see the anger all over the country. Great, great institutions -- the FBI, the Department of Justice -- they've taken a hit in our country and throughout the world like nobody ever thought would be possible. Nobody.According to the book "Game Change, " Bill Clinton shockingly said about President Barack Obama that a few years ago this guy would have been getting us coffee. That's what he said. And we've all seen the cringe-worthy comments from Hillary Clinton which I won't get into here but we know what they are. You've heard them.Here's the central point that I want to get across today. Hillary Clinton isn't just attacking me. She's attacking all of the decent people of all backgrounds -- doesn't matter -- of all backgrounds -- who support this incredible once-in-a-lifetime movement. Never seen anything like it.We can't let that stand. We can't. Voters used to the old game where failed politicians like Hillary who did lose to Barack Obama rather decisively -- an election she was supposed to win easily -- please don't forget that -- where she falsely smears Republicans with the charges of racism and other things. Republicans then always have a tendency to back down and be defensive and look bad. Not Donald Trump.Democrats then continued to push policies that are devastating to communities of color and devastating to lots of other communities.We must break this corrupt cycle. We're going to. And we are going to break it beginning today in New Hampshire.So let me make some very clear statements before this whole country, including all of those many cameras back there.First, on the border. The people of this country who want their laws enforced and respected -- respected by all, and who want their borders secured, are not racists. If you want to have strong borders so that people come into our country, but they come in legally through a legal process, that doesn't make you a racist. It makes you smart. It makes you an American.They're all patriotic Americans.We will build the wall 100 percent and Mexico will be paying for the wall. We will build it 100 percent.I see all this stuff given out over the last three or four days by the media that Trump doesn't want to build the wall. Folks, we are building the wall. OK?And remember this also, I have great respect for Mexico's leaders because frankly they're smarter, tougher and more cunning than ours. But remember this also, Mexico is making an absolute fortune dealing with the United States. Not only on the border, but with trade: a $60 billion trade deficit we have with Mexico.Remember what I say, Mexico will pay for the wall. Remember.These are patriotic Americans of all backgrounds who want their jobs protected, and their country kept safe. It's very simple. They want to have their country kept safe. I will never apologize for pledging to enforce and uphold every single law of the United States. We will uphold those laws for our people.I will never apologize for making it my -- and this is, I will tell you -- for making it my priority, but is it your priority also? I think so.So I will never apologize for making it my priority on immigration to protect American citizens above every other single consideration. We have to protect our people. We've lost sight of that.We will end illegal immigration and we will restore the constitutional rule of law. It will be restored.Next, on national security, people who speak out against radical Islam and who warn about refugees are not Islamophobes. They're not. They are decent American citizens who want to uphold our value as a tolerant society and who want to keep the terrorists the hell out of our country.If the choice is between saving lives or appeasing politically correct censors in Washington, D.C., that is the easiest choice you and I will ever have to make.We will always choose saving American lives.We have thousands and thousands of people being brought into our country from the Middle East, from Syria. We don't know where they are or where they're coming from. They don't have paperwork. There's no reliable source that can vet these people. It could be the all- time great Trojan horse. Thousands -- and Hillary Clinton wants to increase that number by 550 percent a year.Not going to happen, folks; not going to happen. Not on my watch, that I can tell you.Now on crime. People who support the police and who want crime reduced and stopped are not prejudiced. They're concerned and loving citizens and parents whose heart breaks every time an innocent child is lost to totally preventable violence.To Hillary Clinton and her donors and advisers, pushing her to spread smears and her lies about decent people, I have three words. I want you to remember these three words: Shame on you.When you're like the Clintons getting -- think of this one -- getting $69 million in political contributions from Wall Street and big banks -- and I think I got $16,000. You saw that?And I don't know who the poor guy is that gave me the money, because he's not going to get anything for IIt's easy to ignore the heartfelt concerns of communities about radical Islam entering our country when you spend your time hanging out with foreign dictators in their lavish palaces and homes. And it's easy, no doubt, for Hillary Clinton to turn a blind eye to the ravages of crime when she has her own personal armed security force.Now she wants to essentially dismantle our Second Amendment. I think the first thing she should do is call up Washington and immediately request that her great Secret Service agents drop all weapons. Let them walk around with no weapons. And let's see how she feels about that when she wants to take away your guns. But this is how the system is rigged.For decades the American people have demanded that their immigration laws be enforced, and that their jobs be protected from out of control immigration. But the special interests, who only want cheap labor, have stopped it from happening. They've totally stopped it. And they're putting up tremendous amounts of money.For years the American people have worried about letting radical Islam spread within our shores. But the elites, who only want to raise more money for global corporations, ignore the concerns of the American voters. Very simple.For 50 years, people living in our inner cities have suffered under the Democrats failed policy regime. In almost every case it's Democratic rule. But the Democratic politicians, who only want to please media executives and Wall Street donors, do nothing but expand the hurt and the suffering that our inner cities and our country is going through right now. It's time for a new day and a new dawn in America.On November 8 we will end the rule of special interests, and we will begin the rule of the people. I am asking for your vote so that we can break free from the failures of the past and create a new American future. I am asking for your vote so that we can achieve amazing things for the American people. We can be greater than ever before. I am telling you we can be greater than ever before. And African-American citizens and Latino citizens will have the time of their life. Because we are going to create jobs like you've never seen.We're gonna bring our companies back, we're gonna bring our jobs back and we are not going to allow these companies to leave our country, fire all of their workers, make their product and sell it foolishly back into our country with no retribution. Believe me, those days are gone.So I'm asking for the vote of every African-American and Hispanic-American who wants to see for the first time maybe ever a better future and a future that begins with jobs, jobs, jobs and also education, education, education. We are going to bring back great education for our inner cities and for our country.We will fix our disastrous trade deals and stand up to the countries that cheat, of which there are many. We will lower taxes and create millions of new jobs as a result. Companies will come pouring in. We will unleash an American energy revolution. We will eliminate job-killing regulations destroying our businesses.We will repeal and replace the horrible disaster known as Obamacare.We will enforce our immigration laws and we will put rules in place that hire American workers first. And that includes Hispanic workers, and that African-American workers.We will end the era of nation-building. And instead work in partnership with our allies to crush and destroy ISIS.We will keep radical Islamic terrorism out of our country. We will promote the values of tolerance, justice and acceptance. We will steadfastly reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its ugly forms. America will be one nation, united in common. We will have a nation the likes of which this world perhaps has never seen before.We will have dreams, and they'll be common dreams. We will have a purpose. We have no purpose right now. Our citizens will proudly promote our values and our system of government as the best anywhere in the world and they will be proud of it and they will believe it -- not just say it -- believe it. And we will do so without apology.Together we will make America prosperous again and wealthy again. We will make America proud again. We will make, very importantly, safe again.Friends, citizens and fellow Americans, we will make America great again, greater than ever before.Thank you and God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.It's all just too much. We're going to have a great victory on November 8th, I can tell you.We are going to have a great victory. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.How much more can voters take? Not much more. Thank you. Hillary Clinton thinks she's entitled to be president. By the way, she has got very bad judgment. Got very bad judgment. Even if she thinks that, she has got bad judgment.She thinks she's above the law. So far, she has proven that. But the truth is, it's the opposite. Her criminal conduct at home, and her failed interventions overseas simply make her unfit. She is unfit to serve in the Oval Office.I believe that America is ready to turn the page on this very sordid past. We don't want another four years of Obama or Clinton controversies. They are not only dangerous, but frankly, they are exhausting our people.How do you even keep up with it all? How do you do that? The Clintons have had their time on the stage. But now it's time to close that chapter in the history book and open a brand-new, beautiful chapter.That -- thank you. Thank you very much.That is why this is such an exciting year to be a Republican and to vote Republican. We're going to do a great job. This year, the GOP is offering the voters a chance to break up the corrupt establishment and create a new American future.In my opinion, this is our last chance. I really believe that. This chance will never come again. And remember, justices of the Supreme Court. Remember that. It will never ever come again. It will never happen again. I really believe you are not going to have this opportunity again. The big banks and Wall Street donors who want nothing to change are throwing millions and millions of dollars at my opponent. These are the same people who paid Bill and Hillary Clinton $150 million for speeches and I guess some other things.Hillary Clinton's campaign is all about protecting the powerful. And I understand that very well. I think nobody knows the system better than I do. Our campaign is about protecting those who have no power.They don't have power, but they are great, great people. They are great people without power. We're going to change that. They will be great people with power. Together, we are going to work.We are going to give working people a voice for the first time in many, many decades. They haven't had a voice in a long time. Let's talk about what it all means.For our veterans, it means a guarantee that they can seek medical care at either a VA facility or at a private medical doctor with us paying the cost.And thank you, because we've had such incredible veteran support, this uniform all across the land. Never again will we allow a veteran to die waiting for the care they need from a doctor who is a fine doctor but you can't get to ever see your doctor.You wait six days, seven days, nine days. People are dying on line. That's not going to happen. We will protect those who protect us. These are our great people. We are going to protect them. It's our turn now.At the center of our change -- and this is a change agenda, is also a plan to fix our rigged economy. It's rigged. The government just revised the growth numbers. You probably saw yesterday there was a big story. We had horrible growth numbers. They were announced last month.They made a mistake. They just announced that the number that was announced that was so bad was too high, and it had to be readjusted downward, down to 1.1 percent. Just so you understand, if China drops down to 8 percent GDP or 9 percent GDP, it's a major catastrophe. And the same with other countries.And they do things that you don't want to know about. But they make it impossible for your businesses to compete. But they consider it a catastrophe.Here we are with no growth, 1.1 percent, which is no growth. And we have the same leaders that are incompetent and don't know what they are doing. But we're going to make a change.I'm going to be the most presidential president you have ever had. And then I thought about Abraham Lincoln and I said, well, I don't know, he is pretty tough to beat, right? Abraham Lincoln, he was pretty good.But that is a great Republican, which brings me to a subject that is so important and very personal for me. Nothing means more to me than working to make our party the home of the African-American vote once again. Used to be.There are millions and millions of African-Americans in this country who have succeeded so greatly and who deserve a government that protects and honors their incredible contribution. So many have been so successful.As a father, as a builder, as an American, it offends my sense of right and wrong to see anyone living in such conditions. They are living in terrible, terrible conditions. Beyond belief conditions. Bad.Almost 40 percent of African-American children are living in poverty, abject poverty, including 45 percent of children under the age of 6.In Detroit, half of its residents do not work. In Milwaukee, almost four in 10 African-American men between the age of 24 and 54 are not employed and have no prospect of employment.More than 6,000 African-Americans are the victims of murder, of murder every single year. Just yesterday, the cousin of NBA star Dwyane Wade -- a great guy, Dwyane Wade, was the victim of a tragic shooting in Chicago.She was the mother of four, and was killed while pushing her infant child in a stroller just walking down the street. Shot. It breaks all of our hearts to see it. It's horrible. It's horrible. And it's only getting worse.This shouldn't happen in our country. This shouldn't happen in America.So we send our thoughts and prayers to the family, and we also promise to fight for a much, much better tomorrow. Across...Thank you.Across Chicago, more than 2,700 have been shooting victims since January of this year. Think of it, 2,700 people have been shot since January. We cannot, as a society, tolerate this level of violence and suffering in our cities.Those who would deny that -- and you know there are many that do. And they have their own reasons. Many of them are not good reasons. But this is a national crisis. This is a crisis that requires urgent action, have no business, none of these people have any business that support what has been going on running for elected office. None of these people should be even allowed to run. They're a disgrace.For decades and decades and decades, failed Democratic policies, the policy of Hillary Clinton, have created this high crime and crushing poverty, absolutely crushing poverty.In so many communities under Democratic control, we have bad schools, no jobs, high crime, and no hope. It can't get any worse.To those suffering, I say vote for Donald Trump. I will fix it. African-American, Hispanics, vote for Donald Trump. I will fix it. It will get fixed.And I add -- and I add it in all sincerity, what do you have to lose? It can't get any worse. What do you have to lose?Let me also tell you what you have to gain. Millions of jobs, far better schools, safe communities where you can, in fact, walk outside and walk down the street with your child, with your wife or your husband, by yourself, and not be killed and not be shot, not be mugged.We are going to have safe communities again. And the African-American voter has seen what has been happening over the last two weeks and three weeks with me. And I'll tell you, I think we have a lot of support out there. They are very, very tired of what has been going on. And the Hispanic community likewise.They are very sick and tired of what's going on. And it has been going on for decades and decades and decades.By the way, how quickly people have forgotten that Hillary Clinton called black youth super predators, remember that? Super predators. And they were very, very insulted. But now people have forgot.I'm running to offer a better future to the citizens of Detroit, of Baltimore, of Chicago, all across this great land, inner city and outer city, all over, everybody. We are going to come together. We are going to have one great country, greater than ever before.And what is sad is that African-Americans have given so much to this country. They have fought and died in every war since the Revolution. They have lifted up the conscience of our nation in the civil rights movement.They have sacrificed so much for the national good. Now is the time to put a new agenda into action that expands opportunities, ensures equality, an that protects the rights of each and every citizen, including African-American citizens.This includes one of the most important rights of all, the right to live in safety. I will work with communities, with police, and with federal law enforcement to make communities safe and secure for all of our people.We are also going to end the discrimination that traps parents and kids in failing government schools. Our schools are a disaster.The Republican Party and me is a party of school choice. You will see a big difference. Big, big difference.There's another civil rights issue we need to talk about. And that's the issue of immigration enforcement. Every time an African-American citizen or a Hispanic citizen or any citizen loses their job to an illegal immigrant, the rights of that American citizen have been totally violated. They're losing their jobs. It really is... It's an economic question also. Equal protection under the law must include the consistent application of our immigration laws, very simple. These laws were passed to protect American citizens and lawful residents of our country. For instance, federal law protects the ability of American workers to seek jobs and employment. When government suspends those immigration laws, in order to curry favor with special interests that give them campaign contributions, and big ones, costing Americans their jobs, they have been denied the protection of their laws.We gonna build a great wall on the border and we're gonna institute nationwide eVerify, stop illegal immigrants from accessing welfare, and entitlements, and develop an exit-entry, you know what that is, an exit-entry system to ensure those who overstay their visas that they're quickly removed. We don't enforce our visa expiration dates. Then we have open borders and we have nothing but crime. It's gonna end.I'm also going to cancel all unconstitutional orders, executive orders, you've been hearing about that, right, a little, we have a little, a little bit of an excessive executive order President. And the power of the rank-and-file ICE officers and patrol border officers to finally do the jobs that they were meant to do.Most alarmingly, she has pledged to keep President Obama's executive amnesty which has been blocked by the Supreme Court, directly disregarding a Supreme Court injunction. Beyond that, she's pledged to add another executive amnesty in violation of both congressional law and the U.S. constitution. These actions from Hillary Clinton will trigger a crisis greater than almost anything we've seen. This will be a constitutional crisis like we haven't seen in our country. In effect, she's pledging to abolish the law-making powers of Congress and assume the powers of an imperial leader. She is not in an imperial leader, is she? I don't think so. She doesn't, she doesn't, she doesn't even look presidential to me. She certainly doesn't. This executive amnesty would bypass congress to print millions of work permits and benefit cards to those ineligible to receive them.Hillary Clinton's legislative plan, remember this, is to give illegal immigrants access to Obamacare, Social Security, Medicare, and U.S. welfare. I can see one man that doesn't like that very much. That would not happen here would it. Her plan will functionally end enforcement of visa overstay rules, another open open border decree. She will also close down detention centers for border crossings, meaning she will have an open southern border that will bring nothing but crime and destruction.Thank you. Thank you. What an incredible family. And this happens so much. Thousands and thousands of people. The crime is unbelievable. And were gonna stop it. We're gonna stop the crime. There's a reason that we just got endorsed by 16,500 border patrol agents. They know the system better than anybody. It's easier for them to just relax, but they wanted to endorse. They want to see a strong border. We need a strong border if we're gonna remain a country. I want to just thank them in particular. Thank you.Hillary's plan is very dangerous. It's very divisive. It's radical, it's reckless. It's wrecking the innocent lives of so many people. And we will have an unprecedented crisis. We're allowing people to come in. You are going to have a crisis like we have never seen in this county. And if I'm elected, we are not gonna have a crisis. We're gonna have a strong great country again.So, the choice hopefully will be clear to the people of Iowa and throughout the country. A vote for Trump is a vote to have a nation of laws. A vote for Clinton is a vote to have dangerous open borders where anybody can just walk in and do whatever they want.Print it. But they will stop printing it. They have no choice eventually. But they refuse to put it down. We are doing great. They too are part of a rigged system. The media is totally dishonest. They are a rigged system trying to deny people the positive change that they are looking for and they deserve.They take phrases and statements, chop them up, take them out of context, and then they discuss them for days and days and days, always trying to demean and belittle just whatever they can do to demean and belittle.Our incredible movement -- because we have a movement. They all say this is one of the great movements, may be the greatest movement they have ever seen in the history of our country. And many people have said that.We are going to take our country back from the death spiral that it's currently in. Imagine if this much media attention was spent telling the truth about the real problems facing our country.She is funded by the big banks and Wall Street donors. And nothing more than a desperate attempt by a failed leader -- that's all she is. And remember, she lost badly to Barack Obama when she runs, and I think she is going to lose badly to Donald Trump when she runs.Believe me. She is clinging in order to keep that rigged system going. There's nothing they won't say or do. No lie they won't tell. No amount of money they won't spend to try and bully voters into giving them what they want. They lie like I've infer seen anything before.The commercials are phony commercials. They are disgusting. And even people on her side are saying, that's going too far. It's very interesting.This November 8th, the American people are going to reject the cynicism of the past and embrace the optimism of the future.. We have a great future.The old attacks are not going to work anymore. The Clinton- Kaine fear-mongering isn't going to resonate with anyone but the most radical factions of their far left base. And it has gotten far left.I want to empower the people. Hillary Clinton wants to scare the people. Empowering people begins with three simple words. And you know what those words are. Our economy is going to soar. We are going to make our country so strong, and so powerful.And we need the power because other people are not going to want to mess with the United States of America. Remember that.Wages will rise. We will make new friends abroad. And we will achieve like we haven't achieved before. And we will achieve a lasting peace through strength. We will be a country of laws, and a country of great, great success.Our cities will be safe, sound, and secure. Our government will be honest, ethical and responsive. Rule by special interests will be over, over, over.The rule of the American people will begin. So let's get out and vote on November 8th and create the future our children deserve.Together we will make America strong again. Together, we will make America wealthy again, which we have to do. Together, we will make America united again. We will make America safe again. We will make America great again, greater than ever before.Thank you, thank you very much. Thank you, Joni Ernst. Thank you. God bless you, everybody.Wow. Thank you. That's a lot of people, Phoenix, that's a lot of people.Thank you very much.Thank you, Phoenix. I am so glad to be back in Arizona.The state that has a very, very special place in my heart. I love people of Arizona and together we are going to win the White House in November.Now, you know this is where it all began for me. Remember that massive crowd also. So, I said let's go and have some fun tonight. We're going to Arizona, OK?This will be a little bit different. This won't be a rally speech, per se. Instead, I'm going to deliver a detailed policy address on one of the greatest challenges facing our country today, illegal immigration.I've just landed having returned from a very important and special meeting with the President of Mexico, a man I like and respect very much. And a man who truly loves his country, Mexico. And, by the way, just like I am a man who loves my country, the United States.We agree on the importance of ending the illegal flow of drugs, cash, guns, and people across our border, and to put the cartels out of business.We also discussed the great contributions of Mexican-American citizens to our two countries, my love for the people of Mexico, and the leadership and friendship between Mexico and the United States. It was a thoughtful and substantive conversation and it will go on for awhile. And, in the end we're all going to win. Both countries, we're all going to win. This is the first of what I expect will be many, many conversations. And, in a Trump administration we're going to go about creating a new relationship between our two countries, but it's going to be a fair relationship. We want fairness.But to fix our immigration system, we must change our leadership in Washington and we must change it quickly. Sadly, sadly there is no other way. The truth is our immigration system is worse than anybody ever realized. But the facts aren't known because the media won't report on them. The politicians won't talk about them and the special interests spend a lot of money trying to cover them up because they are making an absolute fortune. That's the way it is.Today, on a very complicated and very difficult subject, you will get the truth. The fundamental problem with the immigration system in our country is that it serves the needs of wealthy donors, political activists and powerful, powerful politicians. It's all you can do. Thank you. Thank you.Let me tell you who it does not serve. It does not serve you the American people. Doesn't serve you. When politicians talk about immigration reform, they usually mean the following, amnesty, open borders, lower wages. Immigration reform should mean something else entirely. It should mean improvements to our laws and policies to make life better for American citizens.Thank you. But if we're going to make our immigration system work, then we have to be prepared to talk honestly and without fear about these important and very sensitive issues. For instance, we have to listen to the concerns that working people, our forgotten working people, have over the record pace of immigration and its impact on their jobs, wages, housing, schools, tax bills and general living conditions.These are valid concerns expressed by decent and patriotic citizens from all backgrounds, all over. We also have to be honest about the fact that not everyone who seeks to join our country will be able to successfully assimilate. Sometimes it's just not going to work out. It's our right, as a sovereign nation to chose immigrants that we think are the likeliest to thrive and flourish and love us.Then there is the issue of security. Countless innocent American lives have been stolen because our politicians have failed in their duty to secure our borders and enforce our laws like they have to be enforced. I have met with many of the great parents who lost their children to sanctuary cities and open borders. So many people, so many, many people. So sad. They will be joining me on this stage in a little while and I look forward to introducing, these are amazing, amazing people. Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this administration and the administration that causes this horrible, horrible thought process, called Hillary Clinton.This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root. The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered Federal custody and then was released into the U.S., think of it, into the U.S. community under the policies of the White House, Barack Obama, and Hillary Clinton. Weak, weak policies. Weak and foolish policies. He was released again after the crime, and now he's out there at large. Sarah had graduated from college with a 4.0, top student in her class one day before her death.Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open-border policy was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21-year-old convenience store clerk and a really good guy from Mesa, Arizona. A lot of you have known about Grant. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary, who had also been released from federal custody, and they knew it was going to happen again.Another victim is Kate Steinle. Gunned down in the sanctuary city of San Francisco, by an illegal immigrant, deported five previous times. And they knew he was no good.Then there is the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home, 90 years old and defenseless. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records a mile long, who did not meet Obama administration standards for removal. And they knew it was going to happen.In California, a 64-year-old Air Force veteran, a great woman, according to everybody that knew her, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions but was never, ever deported, despite the fact that everybody wanted him out.A 2011 report from the Government Accountability Office found that illegal immigrants and other non-citizens, in our prisons and jails together, had around 25,000 homicide arrests to their names, 25,000.On top of that, illegal immigration costs our country more than $113 billion a year. And this is what we get. For the money we are going to spend on illegal immigration over the next 10 years, we could provide 1 million at-risk students with a school voucher, which so many people are wanting.While there are many illegal immigrants in our country who are good people, many, many, this doesn't change the fact that most illegal immigrants are lower skilled workers with less education, who compete directly against vulnerable American workers, and that these illegal workers draw much more out from the system than they can ever possibly pay back. And they're hurting a lot of our people that cannot get jobs under any circumstances.But these facts are never reported. Instead, the media and my opponent discuss one thing and only one thing, the needs of people living here illegally. In many cases, by the way, they're treated better than our vets.Not going to happen anymore, folks. November 8th. Not going to happen anymore.The truth is, the central issue is not the needs of the 11 million illegal immigrants or however many there may be -- and honestly we've been hearing that number for years. It's always 11 million. Our government has no idea. It could be 3 million. It could be 30 million. They have no idea what the number is.Frankly our government has no idea what they're doing on many, many fronts, folks.But whatever the number, that's never really been the central issue. It will never be a central issue. It doesn't matter from that standpoint. Anyone who tells you that the core issue is the needs of those living here illegally has simply spent too much time in Washington.Only the out of touch media elites think the biggest problems facing America -- you know this, this is what they talk about, facing American society today is that there are 11 million illegal immigrants who don't have legal status. And, they also think the biggest thing, and you know this, it's not nuclear, and it's not ISIS, it's not Russia, it's not China, it's global warming.To all the politicians, donors, and special interests, hear these words from me and all of you today. There is only one core issue in the immigration debate, and that issue is the well-being of the American people.Nothing even comes a close second. Hillary Clinton, for instance, talks constantly about her fears that families will be separated, but she's not talking about the American families who have been permanently separated from their loved ones because of a preventable homicide, because of a preventable death, because of murder. No, she's only talking about families who come here in violation of the law. We will treat everyone living or residing in our country with great dignity. So important.We will be fair, just, and compassionate to all, but our greatest compassion must be for our American citizens.Thank you.President Obama and Hillary Clinton have engaged in gross dereliction of duty by surrendering the safety of the American people to open borders, and you know it better than anybody right here in Arizona. You know it. President Obama and Hillary Clinton support sanctuary cities. They support catch-and-release on the border. They support visa overstays. They support the release of dangerous, dangerous, dangerous, criminals from detention. And, they support unconstitutional executive amnesty. Hillary Clinton has pledged amnesty in her first 100 days, and her plan will provide Obamacare, Social Security, and Medicare for illegal immigrants, breaking the federal budget.On top of that, she promises uncontrolled, low-skilled immigration that continues to reduce jobs and wages for American workers, and especially for African-American and Hispanic workers within our country -- our citizens. Most incredibly, because to me this is unbelievable, we have no idea who these people are, where they come from. I always say Trojan Horse. Watch what's going to happen, folks. It's not going to be pretty.This includes her plan to bring in 620,000 new refugees from Syria and that region over a short period of time. And even yesterday, when you were watching the news, you saw thousands and thousands of people coming in from Syria. What is wrong with our politicians, our leaders if we can call them that? What the hell are we doing?While Hillary Clinton meets only with donors and lobbyists, my plan was crafted with the input from Federal Immigration offices, very great people. Among the top immigration experts anywhere in this country, who represent workers, not corporations, very important to us. I also worked with lawmakers, who've led on this issue on behalf of American citizens for many years. And most importantly I've met with the people directly impacted by these policies. So important.Number one, are you ready? Are you ready?We will build a great wall along the southern border.One hundred percent. They don't know it yet, but they're going to pay for it. And they're great people and great leaders but they're going to pay for the wall. On day one, we will begin working on a tangible, physical, tall, power, beautiful southern border wall.We will use the best technology, including above and below ground sensors that's the tunnels. Remember that, above and below.Above and below ground sensors. Towers, aerial surveillance and manpower to supplement the wall, find and dislocate tunnels and keep out criminal cartels and Mexico you know that, will work with us. I really believe it. Mexico will work with us. I absolutely believe it. And especially after meeting with their wonderful, wonderful president today. I really believe they want to solve this problem along with us, and I'm sure they will.Number two, we are going to end catch-and-release. We catch them, oh go ahead. We catch them, go ahead.Under my administration, anyone who illegally crosses the border will be detained until they are removed out of our country and back to the country from which they came.And they'll be brought great distances. We're not dropping them right across. They learned that. President Eisenhower. They'd drop them across, right across, and they'd come back. And across.Then when they flew them to a long distance, all of a sudden that was the end. We will take them great distances. But we will take them to the country where they came from, OK?Number three. Number three, this is the one, I think it's so great. It's hard to believe, people don't even talk about it. Zero tolerance for criminal aliens. Zero. Zero.Zero. They don't come in here. They don't come in here.According to federal data, there are at least 2 million, 2 million, think of it, criminal aliens now inside of our country, 2 million people criminal aliens. We will begin moving them out day one. As soon as I take office. Day one. In joint operation with local, state, and federal law enforcement.Now, just so you understand, the police, who we all respect -- say hello to the police. Boy, they don't get the credit they deserve. I can tell you. They're great people. But the police and law enforcement, they know who these people are.They live with these people. They get mocked by these people. They can't do anything about these people, and they want to. They know who these people are. Day one, my first hour in office, those people are gone.And you can call it deported if you want. The press doesn't like that term. You can call it whatever the hell you want. They're gone.Beyond the 2 million, and there are vast numbers of additional criminal illegal immigrants who have fled, but their days have run out in this country. The crime will stop. They're going to be gone. It will be over.They're going out. They're going out fast.Moving forward. We will issue detainers for illegal immigrants who are arrested for any crime whatsoever, and they will be placed into immediate removal proceedings if we even have to do that.We will terminate the Obama administration's deadly, and it is deadly, non-enforcement policies that allow thousands of criminal aliens to freely roam our streets, walk around, do whatever they want to do, crime all over the place.That's over. That's over, folks. That's over.Since 2013 alone, the Obama administration has allowed 300,000 criminal aliens to return back into United States communities. These are individuals encountered or identified by ICE, but who were not detained or processed for deportation because it wouldn't have been politically correct.My plan also includes cooperating closely with local jurisdictions to remove criminal aliens immediately. We will restore the highly successful Secure Communities Program. Good program. We will expand and revitalize the popular 287 (g) partnerships, which will help to identify hundreds of thousands of deportable aliens in local jails that we don't even know about. Both of these programs have been recklessly gutted by this administration. And those were programs that worked.This is yet one more area where we are headed in a totally opposite direction. There's no common sense, there's no brain power in our administration by our leader, or our leaders. None, none, none.On my first day in office I am also going to ask Congress to pass Kate's Law, named for Kate Steinle.To ensure that criminal aliens convicted of illegal reentry receive strong mandatory minimum sentences. Strong.And then we get them out.Another reform I'm proposing is the passage of legislation named for Detective Michael Davis and Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver, to law enforcement officers recently killed by a previously deported illegal immigrant.The Davis-Oliver bill will enhance cooperation with state and local authorities to ensure that criminal immigrants and terrorists are swiftly, really swiftly, identified and removed. And they will go face, believe me. They're going to go.We're going to triple the number of ICE deportation officers.Within ICE I am going to create a new special deportation task force focused on identifying and quickly removing the most dangerous criminal illegal immigrants in America who have evaded justice just like Hillary Clinton has evaded justice, OK?Maybe they'll be able to deport her.The local police who know every one of these criminals, and they know each and every one by name, by crime, where they live, they will work so fast. And our local police will be so happy that they don't have to be abused by these thugs anymore. There's no great mystery to it, they've put up with it for years, and no finally we will turn the tables and law enforcement and our police will be allowed to clear up this dangerous and threatening mess.We're also going to hire 5,000 more Border Patrol agents.Who gave me their endorsement, 16,500 gave me their endorsement.And put more of them on the border instead of behind desks which is good. We will expand the number of border patrol stations significantly.I've had a chance to spend time with these incredible law enforcement officers, and I want to take a moment to thank them. What they do is incredible.And getting their endorsement means so much to me. More to me really than I can say. Means so much. First time they've ever endorsed a presidential candidate.Number four, block funding for sanctuary cities. We block the funding. No more funds.We will end the sanctuary cities that have resulted in so many needless deaths. Cities that refuse to cooperate with federal authorities will not receive taxpayer dollars, and we will work with Congress to pass legislation to protect those jurisdictions that do assist federal authorities. Number five, cancel unconstitutional executive orders and enforce all immigration laws.We will immediately terminate President Obama's two illegal executive amnesties in which he defied federal law and the Constitution to give amnesty to approximately five million illegal immigrants, five million.And how about all the millions that are waiting on line, going through the process legally? So unfair.Hillary Clinton has pledged to keep both of these illegal amnesty programs, including the 2014 amnesty which has been blocked by the United States Supreme Court. Great.Clinton has also pledged to add a third executive amnesty. And by the way, folks, she will be a disaster for our country, a disaster in so many other ways.And don't forget the Supreme Court of the United States. Don't forget that when you go to vote on November 8. And don't forget your Second Amendment. And don't forget the repeal and replacement of Obamacare.And don't forget building up our depleted military. And don't forget taking care of our vets. Don't forget our vets. They have been forgotten.Clinton's plan would trigger a constitutional crisis unlike almost anything we have ever seen before. In effect, she would be abolishing the lawmaking powers of Congress in order to write her own laws from the Oval Office. And you see what bad judgment she has. She has seriously bad judgment.Can you imagine? In a Trump administration all immigration laws will be enforced, will be enforced. As with any law enforcement activity, we will set priorities. But unlike this administration, no one will be immune or exempt from enforcement. And ICE and Border Patrol officers will be allowed to do their jobs the way their jobs are supposed to be done.Anyone who has entered the United States illegally is subject to deportation. That is what it means to have laws and to have a country. Otherwise we don't have a country.Our enforcement priorities will include removing criminals, gang members, security threats, visa overstays, public charges. That is those relying on public welfare or straining the safety net along with millions of recent illegal arrivals and overstays who've come here under this current corrupt administration.Number six, we are going to suspend the issuance of visas to any place where adequate screening cannot occur.According to data provided by the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, and the national interest between 9/11 and the end of 2014, at least 380 foreign born individuals were convicted in terror cases inside the United States. And even right now the largest number of people are under investigation for exactly this that we've ever had in the history of our country.Our country is a mess. We don't even know what to look for anymore, folks. Our country has to straighten out. And we have to straighten out fast.The number is likely higher. But the administration refuses to provide this information, even to Congress. As soon as I enter office I am going to ask the Department of State, which has been brutalized by Hillary Clinton, brutalized.Homeland Security and the Department of Justice to begin a comprehensive review of these cases in order to develop a list of regions and countries from which immigration must be suspended until proven and effective vetting mechanisms can be put in place.I call it extreme vetting right? Extreme vetting. I want extreme. It's going to be so tough, and if somebody comes in that's fine but they're going to be good. It's extreme.And if people don't like it, we've got have a country folks. Got to have a country. Countries in which immigration will be suspended would include places like Syria and Libya. And we are going to stop the tens of thousands of people coming in from Syria. We have no idea who they are, where they come from. There's no documentation. There's no paperwork. It's going to end badly folks. It's going to end very, very badly.For the price of resettling, one refugee in the United States, 12 could be resettled in a safe zone in their home region. Which I agree with 100 percent. We have to build safe zones and we'll get the money from Gulf states. We don't want to put up the money. We owe almost $20 trillion. Doubled since Obama took office, our national debt.But we will get the money from Gulf states and others. We'll supervise it. We'll build safe zones which is something that I think all of us want to see.Another reform, involves new screening tests for all applicants that include, and this is so important, especially if you get the right people. And we will get the right people. An ideological certification to make sure that those we are admitting to our country share our values and love our people.Thank you. We're very proud of our country. Aren't we? Really? With all it's going through, we're very proud of our country. For instance, in the last five years, we've admitted nearly 100,000 immigrants from Iraq and Afghanistan. And these two countries according to Pew Research, a majority of residents say that the barbaric practice of honor killings against women are often or sometimes justified. That's what they say.Number seven, we will insure that other countries take their people back when they order them deported.There are at least 23 countries that refuse to take their people back after they've been ordered to leave the United States. Including large numbers of violent criminals, they won't take them back. So we say, OK, we'll keep them. Not going to happen with me, not going to happen with me.Due to a Supreme Court decision, if these violent offenders cannot be sent home, our law enforcement officers have to release them into your communities.And by the way, the results are horrific, horrific. There are often terrible consequences, such as Casey Chadwick's tragic death in Connecticut just last year. Yet despite the existence of a law that commands the Secretary of State to stop issuing visas to these countries.Secretary Hillary Clinton ignored this law and refused to use this powerful tool to bring nations into compliance. And, they would comply if we would act properly.In other words, if we had leaders that knew what they were doing, which we don't.The result of her misconduct was the release of thousands and thousands of dangerous criminal aliens who should have been sent home to their countries. Instead we have them all over the place. Probably a couple in this room as a matter of fact, but I hope not.According to a report for the Boston Globe from the year 2008 to 2014 nearly 13,000 criminal aliens were released back into U.S. communities because their home countries would not, under any circumstances, take them back. Hard to believe with the power we have. Hard to believe.We're like the big bully that keeps getting beat up. You ever see that? The big bully that keeps getting beat up.These 13,000 release occurred on Hillary Clinton's watch. She had the power and the duty to stop it cold, and she decided she would not do it.And, Arizona knows better than most exactly what I'm talking about.Those released include individuals convicted of killings, sexual assaults, and some of the most heinous crimes imaginable.The Boston Globe writes that a Globe review of 323 criminals released in New England from 2008 to 2012 found that as many as 30 percent committed new offenses, including rape, attempted murder, and child molestation. We take them, we take them.Number eight, we will finally complete the biometric entry-exit visa tracking system which we need desperately. For years Congress has required biometric entry-exit visa tracking systems, but it has never been completed. The politicians are all talk, no action, never happens. Never happens.Hillary Clinton, all talk. Unfortunately when there is action it's always the wrong decision. You ever notice? In my administration we will ensure that this system is in place. And, I will tell you, it will be on land, it will be on sea, it will be in air. We will have a proper tracking system.Approximately half of new illegal immigrants came on temporary visas and then never, ever left. Why should the? Nobody's telling them to leave. Stay as long as you want, we'll take care of you.Beyond violating our laws, visa overstays, pose -- and they really are a big problem, pose a substantial threat to national security. The 9/11 Commission said that this tracking system would be a high priority and would have assisted law enforcement and intelligence officials in august and September in 2001 in conducting a search for two of the 9/11 hijackers that were in the United States expired visas.And, you know what that would have meant, what that could have meant. Wouldn't that have been wonderful, right? What that could have meant?Last year alone nearly half a million individuals overstayed their temporary visas. Removing these overstays will be a top priority of my administration.If people around the world believe they can just come on a temporary visa and never, ever leave, the Obama-Clinton policy, that's what it is, then we have a completely open border, and we no longer have a country.We must send a message that visa expiration dates will be strongly enforced.Number nine, we will turn off the jobs and benefits magnet.We will ensure that eVerify is used to the fullest extent possible under existing law, and we will work with Congress to strengthen and expand its use across the country.Immigration law doesn't exist for the purpose of keeping criminals out. It exists to protect all aspects of American life. The work site, the welfare office, the education system, and everything else.That is why immigration limits are established in the first place. If we only enforced the laws against crime, then we have an open border to the entire world. We will enforce all of our immigration laws.And the same goes for government benefits. The Center for Immigration Studies estimates that 62 percent of households headed by illegal immigrants use some form of cash or non-cash welfare programs like food stamps or housing assistance.Tremendous costs, by the way, to our country. Tremendous costs. This directly violates the federal public charge law designed to protect the United States Treasury. Those who abuse our welfare system will be priorities for immediate removal.Number 10, we will reform legal immigration to serve the best interests of America and its workers, the forgotten people. Workers. We're going to take care of our workers.And by the way, and by the way, we're going to make great trade deals. We're going to renegotiate trade deals. We're going to bring our jobs back home. We're going to bring our jobs back home.We have the most incompetently worked trade deals ever negotiated probably in the history of the world, and that starts with NAFTA. And now they want to go TPP, one of the great disasters.We're going to bring our jobs back home. And if companies want to leave Arizona and if they want to leave other states, there's going to be a lot of trouble for them. It's not going to be so easy. There will be consequence. Remember that. There will be consequence. They're not going to be leaving, go to another country, make the product, sell it into the United States, and all we end up with is no taxes and total unemployment. It's not going to happen. There will be consequences.We've admitted 59 million immigrants to the United States between 1965 and 2015. Many of these arrivals have greatly enriched our country. So true. But we now have an obligation to them and to their children to control future immigration as we are following, if you think, previous immigration waves.We've had some big waves. And tremendously positive things have happened. Incredible things have happened. To ensure assimilation we want to ensure that it works. Assimilation, an important word. Integration and upward mobility.Within just a few years immigration as a share of national population is set to break all historical records. The time has come for a new immigration commission to develop a new set of reforms to our legal immigration system in order to achieve the following goals.To keep immigration levels measured by population share within historical norms. To select immigrants based on their likelihood of success in U.S. society and their ability to be financially self- sufficient.We take anybody. Come on in, anybody. Just come on in. Not anymore.You know, folks, it's called a two-way street. It is a two-way street, right? We need a system that serves our needs, not the needs of others. Remember, under a Trump administration it's called America First. Remember that.To choose immigrants based on merit. Merit, skill, and proficiency. Doesn't that sound nice? And to establish new immigration controls to boost wages and to ensure that open jobs are offered to American workers first. And that in particular African- American and Latino workers who are being shut out in this process so unfairly.And Hillary Clinton is going to do nothing for the African- American worker, the Latino worker. She's going to do nothing. Give me your vote, she says, on November eighth. And then she'll say, so long, see you in four years. That's what it is.She is going to do nothing. And just look at the past. She's done nothing. She's been there for 35 years. She's done nothing. And I say what do you have to lose? Choose me. Watch how good we're going to do together. Watch.You watch. We want people to come into our country, but they have to come into our country legally and properly vetted, and in a manner that serves the national interest. We've been living under outdated immigration rules from decades ago. They're decades and decades old.To avoid this happening in the future, I believe we should sunset our visa laws so that Congress is forced to periodically revise and revisit them to bring them up to date. They're archaic. They're ancient. We wouldn't put our entire federal budget on auto pilot for decades, so why should we do the same for the very, very complex subject of immigration?So let's now talk about the big picture. These 10 steps, if rigorously followed and enforced, will accomplish more in a matter of months than our politicians have accomplished on this issue in the last 50 years. It's going to happen, folks. Because I am proudly not a politician, because I am not behold to any special interest, I've spent a lot of money on my campaign, I'll tell you. I write those checks. Nobody owns Trump.I will get this done for you and for your family. We'll do it right. You'll be proud of our country again. We'll do it right. We will accomplish all of the steps outlined above. And, when we do, peace and law and justice and prosperity will prevail. Crime will go down. Border crossings will plummet. Gangs will disappear.And the gangs are all over the place. And welfare use will decrease. We will have a peace dividend to spend on rebuilding America, beginning with our American inner cities. We're going to rebuild them, for once and for all.For those here illegally today, who are seeking legal status, they will have one route and one route only. To return home and apply for reentry like everybody else, under the rules of the new legal immigration system that I have outlined above. Those who have left to seek entry --Thank you.Thank you. Thank you. Those who have left to seek entry under this new system -- and it will be an efficient system -- will not be awarded surplus visas, but will have to apply for entry under the immigration caps or limits that will be established in the future. We will break the cycle of amnesty and illegal immigration. We will break the cycle. There will be no amnesty.Our message to the world will be this. You cannot obtain legal status or become a citizen of the United States by illegally entering our country. Can't do it.This declaration alone will help stop the crisis of illegal crossings and illegal overstays, very importantly. People will know that you can't just smuggle in, hunker down and wait to be legalized. It's not going to work that way. Those days are over.Importantly, in several years when we have accomplished all of our enforcement and deportation goals and truly ended illegal immigration for good, including the construction of a great wall, which we will have built in record time. And at a reasonable cost, which you never hear from the government.And the establishment of our new lawful immigration system then and only then will we be in a position to consider the appropriate disposition of those individuals who remain.That discussion can take place only in an atmosphere in which illegal immigration is a memory of the past, no longer with us, allowing us to weigh the different options available based on the new circumstances at the time.Right now, however, we're in the middle of a jobs crisis, a border crisis and a terrorism crisis like never before. All energies of the federal government and the legislative process must now be focused on immigration security. That is the only conversation we should be having at this time, immigration security. Cut it off.Whether it's dangerous materials being smuggled across the border, terrorists entering on visas or Americans losing their jobs to foreign workers, these are the problems we must now focus on fixing. And the media needs to begin demanding to hear Hillary Clinton's answer on how her policies will affect Americans and their security.These are matters of life and death for our country and its people, and we deserve answers from Hillary Clinton. And do you notice, she doesn't answer.She didn't go to Louisiana. She didn't go to Mexico. She was invited.She doesn't have the strength or the stamina to make America great again. Believe me.What we do know, despite the lack of media curiosity, is that Hillary Clinton promises a radical amnesty combined with a radical reduction in immigration enforcement. Just ask the Border Patrol about Hillary Clinton. You won't like what you're hearing.The result will be millions more illegal immigrants; thousands of more violent, horrible crimes; and total chaos and lawlessness. That's what's going to happen, as sure as you're standing there.This election, and I believe this, is our last chance to secure the border, stop illegal immigration and reform our laws to make your life better. I really believe this is it. This is our last time. November 8. November 8. You got to get out and vote on November 8.It's our last chance. It's our last chance. And that includes Supreme Court justices and Second Amendment. Remember that. So I want to remind everyone what we're fighting for and who we are fighting for.I am going to ask -- these are really special people that I've gotten to know. I'm going to ask all of the "Angel Moms " to come join me on the stage right now.These are amazing women.These are amazing people.I've become friends with so many. But Jamiel Shaw, incredible guy, lost his son so violently. Say just a few words about your child.Thank you, thank you.You know what? Name your child and come right by. Go ahead.These are amazing people, and I am not asking for their endorsement, believe me that. I just think I've gotten to know so many of them, and many more, from our group. But they are incredible people and what they're going through is incredible, and there's just no reason for it. Let's give them a really tremendous hand.That's tough stuff, I will tell you. That is tough stuff. Incredible people.So, now is the time for these voices to be heard. Now is the time for the media to begin asking questions on their behalf. Now is the time for all of us as one country, Democrat, Republican, liberal, conservative to band together to deliver justice, and safety, and security for all Americans.Let's fix this horrible, horrible, problem. It can be fixed quickly. Let's our secure our border.Let's stop the drugs and the crime from pouring into our country. Let's protect our social security and Medicare. Let's get unemployed Americans off the welfare and back to work in their own country.This has been an incredible evening. We're going to remember this evening. November 8, we have to get everybody. This is such an important state. November 8 we have to get everybody to go out and vote.We're going to bring -- thank you, thank you. We're going to take our country back, folks. This is a movement. We're going to take our country back.Thank you.Thank you.This is an incredible movement. The world is talking about it. The world is talking about it and by the way, if you haven't been looking to what's been happening at the polls over the last three or four days I think you should start looking. You should start looking.Together we can save American lives, American jobs, and American futures. Together we can save America itself. Join me in this mission, we're going to make America great again.Thank you. I love you. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. God bless you, thank you.Thank you. We're going to win Ohio, no doubt about that.Right there. Come on, Robert. Fantastic. Way to go. man. Thank you. Appreciate it. I appreciate it.Matt Borges, where's Matt? Republican Party. He has done such a good job. I think we're going to win Ohio. Big league folks. Big league. Big league.So -- and I just want to thank everybody. I mean, to come out here in these numbers, these -- man, I'll tell you, that's a lot of people. This is a lot of -- we've been having a lot of people. We have a movement going on. We have a movement going on, just remember. It's going to be something special.And come November we are going to win this state, I have very little doubt.We're going to win the White House. And we're going to bring back your jobs, which we have to have back and we want them back soon.We're going to negotiate fair trade deals that put American workers back to work, that put America First.We're going to stop the product dumping, the unfair foreign subsidies and the currency manipulation that's absolutely killing our companies. And by the way, killing our jobs.We're going to stop the foreign cheating. The era of economic surrender, which is what we've done, essentially, is over. A new era of American greatness is going to begin and it's going to start a little ahead of schedule -- we'll consider the start date November 8th. That's when you go out to vote.Gonna be a big day, November 8th. You gotta get out there.No state has been hurt worse, really, by Hillary Clinton trade policies than Ohio. Hillary Clinton backed her husband's NAFTA. She backed China's entrance into the World Trade Organization. She backed the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, which was a disaster, and backed TPP, Transpacific Partnership. One bad deal after another.Ohio has lost nearly one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and nearly one in four manufacturing jobs since China entered the World Trade Organization. That's really something.These are deals made at the top. We have no leadership. We're going to have great leadership. We're gonna bring our jobs back. We're gonna open new companies. You're gonna be so proud of your country once again.Our trade deficit in goods with the world is now, think of it, $800 billion. Trade deficit. Can you imagine? This subtracts directly from our growth. Our economy grew only 1.1 percent in the last quarter, a total disaster, a number that's so low they went back and they checked and guess what? They found it was too high; they had to reduce it even further. That was last week. This is the legacy of Barack Obama, this is the legacy of Hillary Clinton. If you, for any reason, have a really bad day, and it happens to be Hillary, it'll be four more years of Obama, but worse. It'll be four more years of high taxes, four more years of ISIS growing all over the place, four more years of Obamacare going up 40, 50, 60 percent. Nobody can afford it, the deductibles are so high it doesn't work anyway. You have to be hit by a truck and die slowly, very, very slowly. You'll never get to use it. That's OK; don't get hit by a truck.I'm promising you a new legacy for America. We're going to create a new American future.But to do that we have to stop the horror known as Transpacific Partnership. It's going to be a horrible deal. It will be perhaps as bad as NAFTA. I don't think anything will ever top NAFTA personally, but it'll be very bad.Our trade deficit with the proposed TPP members countries cost the state of Ohio more than 100,000 manufacturing jobs just last year.Imagine how many more jobs would be lost if TPP was actually approved -- if it was actually approved.Hillary Clinton, who called TPP the gold standard, would 100 percent approve it if she ever got in. We won't let that happen.We'll win this election and we'll keep America out of TPP. We will defend our freedom, our jobs and our economic independence. It's going to be America First.My economic plan is going to grow this economy, raise your wages and create millions and millions of new jobs for this country.Here are a few of the things that we're going to do and we're going to get them done quickly: a massive tax cut for working Americans.We're going to eliminate regulations that kill American jobs, and that includes getting rid of Obama administration's new anti-energy rules that will raise Ohio energy bills by more than 40 percent very, very quickly.Hillary Clinton says she wants to put a lot of coal miners out of business. She wants to put them out of business.We're going to protect our coal miners.We're going to protect our steel workers.We're going to protect our factories -- how about factory workers?The factories that we have left -- the factories that we have left, we're going to protect our workers.We're going to put the miners and the steel workers back to work. We're going to get your energy bills way down where they should be.We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.Which, by the way, will save another 2 million jobs over the next decade.We're going to create jobs for all of our people. And we're going to fight to ensure that every young African-American and Latino child is put on the ladder of American success.And what that means is a great education and a great job.A major part of this agenda includes school choice. School choice, so important. Merit pay for teachers and support for our great charter schools.And we're going to bring your education local, folks. We're going to get rid of Common Core.Common Core will be out. We're bringing it local. Bringing it local.I want every single child in this country to be included in the American dream.Another major part of our agenda is immigration security. We need to protect American jobs, security and safety.Don't worry, we're going to build that wall. That wall will go up. It's going to go up.We're gonna build the wall. Mexico's gonna pay for the wall. We're gonna stop drugs from coming in.We've gotta stop the drugs from pouring into our states.It's poisoning our youth and others. Our youth is being poisoned. People are being poisoned. And we've gotta get it stopped and we will get it stopped and we're gonna get it stopped quickly if I win. Quickly.Last night, I outlined a bold new immigration reform to create prosperity and opportunity for all of our people, especially those who have the least.We will treat everyone with dignity, respect and compassion. But our greatest compassion will be for the American citizen.It will be, from now on, America First.I had a great meeting yesterday with the president of Mexico, where we both expressed our shared desire -- and it is a shared desire -- to secure the border, put the cartels out of business and to keep jobs in our hemisphere.Here is one example of Clinton corruption.As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton signed off on a deal allowing Russians to take an increased stake in a company called Uranium One, giving up control of about 20 percent of America's uranium supply to the Russians.Do you know how important uranium is? You know what it represents?Clinton's approval of the deal netted the owners of Uranium Company millions of dollars.In exchange for signing off the deal, some of the former owners of Uranium One gave the Clinton Foundation many millions of dollars in donations.In addition. Bill Clinton received $500,000 for a speech.I mean, think of this. So a Kremlin-backed investment firm that was a big, big beneficiary of the deal.Here's another example of pay-for-play in the Clinton State Department.In 2009, a telecom giant named Ericsson came under U.S. pressure for selling telecom equipment to several oppressive governments including Sudan, Syria and always Iran.It's Iran. They're involved in a lot of stuff aren't they?Some of these regimes use those technologies to monitor and control their own people. In June 2011, Hillary Clinton's State Department began adding goods and services to a list that might be covered under expanded sanctions on Iran and other state sponsors of terrorism. During that time, Ericsson sponsored a speech by Bill Clinton paying him $750,000; his highest paying speech.In April 2012, the Obama administration issued an executive order imposing sanctions on telecom sales to Iran and Syria, but those sanctions did not cover Ericsson's work in Iran. I wonder why.A Trump administration will end government corruption.No one will be above the law.We will have one set of rules for everyone. In Hillary Clinton's world, we have one set of rules for her and another set of rules for everybody else.I'm fighting for everyone who doesn't have a voice. We are soon going to have a voice.I'm fighting for the forgotten men and women of America -- forgotten. Believe me, forgotten. I am your voice.I didn't need to do this folks. I'm spending a lot of money. I'm not having those big checks written like you-know-who's getting. Spent a lot of money.But you know what? In the end, it's going to be so worth it, because we're going to make America great again. We'll make America great again.Hillary Clinton is funded by Wall Street and hedge fund managers. My campaign is powered by my money, but also by small-dollar donations from people working all across the country who want a better future for their children.Nothing terrifies the ruling class more than when everybody and everyday working people give $5, $10, $15, $60, $80, $100 to help us take government away from the special interests and give it back to the voters.Come November 8th, we are once again going to have a government that serves you, your family and your country. Gonna have it.We're going to rebuild our depleted military, avoid needless foreign wars, build new friendships overseas and remember those three famous words: peace through strength.We're going to work with our allies to crush, defeat and utterly destroy ISIS.We're going to have a new immigration screening test for entry into the United States.We only want to admit those into our country who share our values and love our people. And I mean love our people.My tax reforms will add millions of new jobs and thousands or new small businesses.My energy reforms will create millions of new jobs and lower the price of your energy bill very, very substantially.My trade reforms will raise wages, grow jobs, add trillions of new wealth into our country. We are going to become a wealthy country again. And we will be able to do things that we're not even thinking about right now. We are not even thinking about what we are supposed to be doing.My infrastructure plans will rebuild your roads, your bridges, your tunnels, your railways, your airports -- and they are a mess.My regulatory reforms will make it easier for small businesses to thrive, including millions of minority-owned businesses and small businesses all across the country. So important. Jobs, jobs, jobs.My government will reform and will make your -- look, what's the line? Your voice will be heard again.It won't be the voice of the special interests. Every insider getting rich off our broken system is throwing money at Hillary Clinton. I have charts -- I won't even show you -- but it shows what hedge fund people are giving to her. I think I got $18,000, she got $48 million. And I said, "Who gave me the 18? Not going to get anything."It's the powerful protecting the powerful, insiders fighting for insiders. I am fighting for you, believe me.Thank you.Every day you turn on the nightly news, you hear about some self- interested banker or some Washington insider say they oppose Donald Trump's campaign, or some encrusted old politician says they oppose our campaign -- because it really is our campaign. I am merely the messenger folks, believe me. I am merely the messenger.Or some big-time lobbyist says they oppose our campaign.I wear their opposition as a badge of honor, it is a badge of honor. Because it means that I'm fighting for real change, not just partisan change. I'm fighting -- all of us across the country are fighting to give working people control over their own futures.Not like the way we have it now. Where you go home and all of a sudden you get notified you have no job, the company is leaving, going to Mexico or some other place. No good. We're not going to do it anymore folks. We've been doing it for a long time; we're not going to do it anymore.The media-donor-political complex that's bled this country dry has to be replaced with a new government of, by, and for the people.I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms, and seek a new future of security, prosperity and opportunity, a future built on our common culture and values as one American people.I am asking for your vote so you can be our champion and so I can be your champion in the White House. I will be your champion.We will fight for victory. We will fight for real deals. We will fight for our vets. We're gonna be fighting for a lot.We're gonna be fighting. Believe me, we're gonna be fighting.We're going to show the whole world that can't believe what's happened to our country, that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever before.And it's coming back, your jobs are coming back, believe me. Your jobs are coming back.To every parent who dreams for their children and to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you today: I am with you. I will fight for you. And I will win for you. We'll all win together.We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. We will make America prosperous again. We will make America great again.Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. November 8th, get out and vote. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.It is great to be back in North Carolina, believe me.We had a fantastic victory in the primaries, and I love the people. And I have property here. I employ a lot of people in North Carolina.And I pay them a lot of money, I want to tell you that right now. So thank you, everybody. It's a really great honor.You know, two people are here tonight. Eric Trump, do we ever hear of Eric Trump, right?His wife, Lara, who was born in North Carolina, and she's running and working so hard to win North Carolina November 8th, November 8th.And I'm sure most of you have never heard of her, but Ivanka Trump, OK?I love, y 'all! Thank you, North Carolina!Thank you. Oh, boy. It's great. It's great.We are going to make America so, so, so great again.And in 62 days, we're going to win this state and we're going to win back the White House.But to do that, you must get out and vote. And that means early voting which begins in North Carolina on October 20th. In other words, start voting, start voting.This is our chance to end years of injustice, corruption and betrayal, and we're going to bring back our jobs, by the way.This is our chance to solve all of the problems that have gone unsolved for so, so, so many years. Boy, I'll tell you, many, many years of gross incompetence. And that includes bringing back our jobs that have been taken away from us like we're a bunch of babies and moved to other countries that were smarter and sharper than our leaders. That's not going to happy anymore, folks. Not going to happen anymore.For how long have people been saying Washington is broken and controlled by special interests? You know that. This is the year we can fix it.That's because change has come from the outside of our broken system, and it's a very corrupt system at that. We will never fix our rigged system by relying on the people who rigged it in the first place. And that's what you're doing.We need change. We need change. We will never solve our problems by relying on the politicians who created our problems.So to every American who has been waiting for real change, your wait is over, your moment of liberation is at hand.And by the way, we have another room like this outside that's loaded up with people. And outside they have thousands of people also, so that's what's happening.And we're going to go visit the other room right after this. Is that OK with you people?I mean, you already have the better location. We have to go and visit them, right?But a vote for Trump is a vote to restore democracy, to heal our economy and to bring millions of jobs back into every forgotten stretch of this country. And boy, that does mean North Carolina!The change will begin my first day in office. Number one, we're going to eliminate every unconstitutional executive order and restore the rule of law to our land.Then we're going to begin implementing plans for construction of a wall along our Southern border.In other words, we will build the wall.Who's going to pay for the wall?Who?Exactly right.They will. They will. They will. And you know, they're doing very well. Mexico, honestly, they're doing very well. It's like the eighth wonder of the world, what's going on, massive factories, massive plants are being built. Unfortunately, the bad news is they're being filled up right here, they're being filled up by people from Mexico, not by people from the United States.We've got to change it around folks, I'm sorry, we've got to change it around. And it will change.This will keep out the violent cartels and gangs as well as their drugs that are poisoning our youth and many others, many, many others.But that's just the beginning. I'm going to ask Congress to send me a bill to repeal and replace, finally, Obamacare. It's a disaster.Under Senate rules, that bill can be passed with 51 votes; 51, not a big deal, especially if we hold the Senate, and I think we will. Remember, they were saying, well, if Trump wins, well, most of those people are up. But I'm higher than some of them, so it's very interesting.I think we're doing very well, I have to tell you. I think we're doing very well. The pundits are extremely upset...... meaning a Republican Congress and a Republican president can save Americans from this disaster in a single...Very simple. And remember the judges, remember the Supreme Court, justices of the Supreme Court, don't ever forget it, don't ever forget it.And don't ever forget the Second Amendment, which is under siege. And you don't vote for Donald Trump, you're going to see what's going to happen, you're going to see what's going to happen to your Second Amendment. It's not going to be pretty.The National Rifle Association, NRA, endorsed me, the earliest endorsement they've ever given, I believe.And you've got to get out. If you believe in the Second Amendment, you've got to get out and you've got to vote.So it's going to be a very busy first day. I'm going to instruct the Department of State to immediately suspend the Syrian refugee resettlement program...... and develop plans for the construction of a safe zone in the region.And the safe zone will not be paid for by us, it will be paid for by Gulf states that have plenty of money, that don't spend it, because we're going to be, think of it, at $20 trillion, double the amount of debt that we had when President Obama first came to office.So we're not going to build it, but we all have hearts, we want to take care of people, we're going to build beautiful safe zones in Syria. And other people are going to pay for it. It's called the OPM theory of money. I love that theory. It's called other people's money.And remember the power we have, because some of those countries, many of those countries, wouldn't be there for a long period of time, believe me, if we didn't protect them. So we have a lot of power, just remember. We don't use that power, we don't even talk about that power.My opponent wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees over the large number...... over the large number that are already coming into the country, thousands and thousands, through President Obama.She is running to be America's Angela Merkel. And you see what happened to Angela Merkel of Germany. They had a massive defeat recently in the elections, because Germany has had problems like it's rarely seen before. And look at France and look at other countries. It's catastrophic, folks. It's catastrophic.I have friends that go to France every year, they love it. I say, how did you like it this year? They say we don't go to France anymore, France isn't France. Pretty tough. We'll go to North Carolina instead, OK? I think so.Even our great mayor, Rudy Giuliani, is smiling at that one. But it's true.It happens to be true, Rudy, right?I'm also going to notify all countries that refuse to take back dangerous, illegal immigrants who have committed crimes in this country that they will lose access to our visa programs and many, many more little goodies if they continue to refuse to take back the criminals that have been placed in our country.Right now they refuse to take them back, gang members, drug lords. We bring them back, they say we don't want them, so we fly the plane right back and they go right back into our country. It's unbelievable actually.This is the measure that is called for under current law, and I will totally enforce it. They will take those people back, believe me.The Secretary of State is required to take this action. But Hillary Clinton refused to do so, just refused, resulting in thousands of criminal aliens being released into United States communities. And by the way, lots of crime and even death.Furthermore, I will direct every agency in government to begin identifying all wasteful, job-killing regulations. And they are going to be removed. This will include lifting the restrictions on American energy. We're going to get your electric bills down.I will also notify our NAFTA partners of my intention to renegotiate the deal, totally renegotiate the deal. It's got to be a two-way highway, remember that. Right now it's one way. Our jobs leave our country and go someplace else, mostly to Mexico.And we will withdraw from the TPP before it can be ratified. That's going to be another NAFTA, believe me.We're going to bring these jobs back to North Carolina. And we're not going to allow our companies to leave North Carolina. There will be consequences if they do so. They're not going to move to a country, make their product, sell it without any tax, without any tariff, right into our country, so we end up with a tremendous loss of taxes and tremendous unemployment. We get nothing. We get nothing.And you know what? If they knew there was retribution, if they knew there was consequence, they wouldn't leave, they wouldn't even be talking about it. They wouldn't even be talking about it.Hillary Clinton supported NAFTA. She supported China's entry into the World Trade Organization. And she supported TPP. Remember, she said it was the gold standard.By the way, I don't think anything can be as bad as NAFTA, but TPP is going to be pretty close. It's going to be a disaster and a disaster for this area.She just does whatever her donors and special interests want her to do. That's why she's raising all this money. But we're raising a lot of money. We're putting out a statement tomorrow. We've raised a lot, and a lot of it, unfortunately, came from me.What am I going to do?But a lot of it came from small donors. I think we're average $61 a shot. And we raised millions. We're going to be reporting a very big number tomorrow, so stay tuned.In a Trump administration, we will negotiate trade deals on behalf of American workers, OK? Not for some other country or some company owned by the special interests and donors that give her money. For the American workers. It's going to be now America First, remember that, and our worker comes first.We will work to ensure that farmers in North Carolina have the tools they need to thrive at home and compete on a level playing field in foreign markets. And that means negotiating fair trade deals that do indeed put America First.Crucially, I am also going to convene my top generals. We have a great one here. Actually, we have a great two generals here tonight. One of them graduated number one in his class from West Point, just like General Douglas MacArthur, General Douglas MacArthur.Where is that general? Where is he, tough guy? He is -- come here, General. Come here. Number one in his class.I'm impressed by that, General.Number one in his class at West Point, two-star general, incredible guy.By the way, did you see? I think it was 88 generals and admirals endorsed Donald Trump today. And these are the fighters, these are the fighters.These are the warriors. These are the ones, not the political hacks that endorsed Hillary Clinton two or three weeks ago. Did you see them all? They run. You know why? Because we have no place for them. These are the people that have been telling her and Obama and others what to do over the last number of years. How has that worked out, folks? How has that worked out?So we're going to convene my top generals and give them a simple instruction. They will have 30 days to submit to the Oval Office a plan for soundly and quickly defeating ISIS.We have no choice.Any nation who shares in this goal will be our friend in this mission. For years, we have been caught up in endless wars and conflicts under the leadership of failed politicians and a failed, totally failed, foreign policy. And this is a policy that could only happen with incompetent people running our country, believe me.The same people who made every wrong decision in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, Egypt, China and Russia are the same people who are now advising who? Hillary Clinton. Who? You said it. The same people are advising Hillary Clinton.So I'm proud instead to have the support of our warfighting generals, active duty military officers and top military experts who know how to win. These are the tough wins, these are the smart ones, and know how to keep us out of this endless war, the war that's been going on forever and draining our country, draining our country.Our infrastructure is a disaster. It is draining our country, our roads, our tunnels, our bridges, our schools, our hospitals, everything. Our infrastructure is a disaster. This is draining us.Hillary Clinton favors what has been called military adventurism, OK? Military adventurism, rushing to invade countries, displacing millions of families and then inviting the refugees into our country, creating power vacuums filled by terrorist groups, like ISIS. And believe me, there are plenty of people that are very closely associated with ISIS, coming into our country. We've got it from within, folks.This could be the great Trojan horse of all time. And in 200 years and 400 years, I don't want people to be reading about it. OK? I don't want people to be talking about it.I believe in a foreign policy based on our national interests that focus on American security and regional stability, instead of using our military to create democracies in countries with no democratic history and couldn't care less about democracy. We're trying to force democracy down their throat. We're spending trillions of dollars and they don't even want it.We will work to form partnerships overseas based on a long-term strategy of defeating radical Islamic terrorism.We will first have to reverse the damage inflicted by Hillary Clinton and Obama. Her legacy of failure and his total legacy of failure in the Middle East, Russia, Asia, everywhere, has made Americans far less safe probably than ever before.And they talk Russia, they keep talking Russia. Wouldn't it be nice if we actually could get along with Russia? Wouldn't that be nice? Wouldn't that be a good thing? And with Russia helping us, because they don't like ISIS any better than we do, with Russia helping us to knock out ISIS, wouldn't that be a good thing instead of a bad thing? These people.As part of our plan to avoid and prevent foreign conflicts, we're going to rebuild our very depleted military.And you saw this. There was a documentary recently on our jet fighters. They're so old we can't get parts. We get the parts from airplane graveyards and from airplane museums. We take the parts off planes that are in museums and graveyards and we put them on our jet fighters. This is not the United States of America, folks. This is not the United States.This is our ultimate deterrent, however. We will be guided by three very famous words: Peace through strength.I will ask Congress to eliminate the sequester and immediately reinvest in our military. We have no choice, not like we can say, oh, let's not do it. We have no choice. We have no choice.We have a great country. We want to keep our country strong. We want to keep our country, so we have no choice.Somebody said, isn't there something else you could do? This isn't like, oh, gee, let's pick A, B, C. We have no choice. We have to have, maybe more than ever before, a strong and powerful military. And hopefully, we'll never have to be able to use it. Hopefully, we'll never have to use it.Right now, we have, amazingly, the smallest Air Force since 1947, the smallest Army since 1939, and one of the smallest navies, listen to this, since 1917.Like the Cold War, we also need to fight this battle by collecting intelligence and then protecting -- protecting -- our classified secrets.Hillary Clinton has taught us all how much of a problem we have by cyber security. Big thing, cyber security. We can't have someone in the Oval Office who doesn't understand the meaning of the word "confidential " or "classified."Now, I think she probably understands the meaning. Such a serious situation. And by the way, today, much to the consternation of many, the new CNN poll was just released and Trump is winning.Trump is winning, meaning -- meaning -- you're winning, I'm not winning, you're winning.You're winning. You're winning. The movement is winning, because this is indeed a movement, folks. When you look at this room and you look at another room in this building and you look at thousands of people outside and you learned about it two days ago, this is not just a normal situation. This is a movement. It's a movement. We're tired of incompetent people running our country into the ground.The new revelations about Hillary Clinton from the just-released FBI documents make more clear than ever that she fails to meet the minimum standard for running for public office.If she applied for a low-level job at the State Department today, just a low-level job, she couldn't even get a security clearance based on what she's done. Her conduct is disqualifying.Let's run through what we discovered in those FBI documents, which, by the way, were released late on Friday just prior to Labor Day weekend, and the interview took place over the July 4th weekend.It's important. And we're hoping Matt Lauer will ask about it on Wednesday night to her when he does the town hall, because she is being protected by the media, by the press like nobody ever has been protected in the history of this country.Me, on the other hand, it's a total pile-on. Actually, a couple of the media people have said, also in the history of our country there has been nobody hit so hard, so viciously, so violently, and I will tell you so ridiculously unfairly, as Donald Trump. I'm proud to do it for you, folks. I'm proud to do it.You know the expression, whatever?It's clear from the FBI report that Hillary Clinton lied about her handling of confidential information. She repeatedly told the country that she understood the classified system, then she told the FBI she didn't understand that the letter C meant confidential or even classified in the documents she emailed.On 39 separate occasions, 39, she said she couldn't recall details about her mishandling of classified information and she couldn't even name one step she took to make sure foreign hackers couldn't get into her totally illegal server.Keep in mind that her insecure emails included emails about the drone program.It's also clear from the FBI report that Hillary Clinton and her top aides knowingly destroyed evidence and covered up their actions.After her private server was revealed last March, her staff deleted all the emails and wiped it clean using a software designed to prevent any recovery. She bleached her emails. Nobody even heard about it before, and nobody does it because it's a very expensive process. Why would anybody that's getting rid of emails that had to do with the wedding?And also, wasn't it -- remember, right -- yoga? Yoga. Yoga and the wedding.Why are you, when you delete 33,000 -- I figure five for the wedding and two for the yoga, right? So that's seven. But why do you acid wash or bleach the emails? Nobody even heard of it before, very expensive. Just ask yourself.Then they used hammers to destroy phones so they couldn't be turned over. And by the way, who uses 13 different iPhones in four years? Who?The only people who use that many phones are usually involved in very, very, and I mean very shady activity.And now she's running for president.And by the way, did you ever notice, she never talks about policy, she never talks about illegal immigration, she never talks about anything. All she does is a total hit job on Donald Trump. She makes up terms, right? She makes up terms.Temperament -- you know what they did? They got Madison Avenue, that's the big advertising people, and they probably drew, like, 20 terms and they go, oh, let's see, temperament, oh, temperament, yeah, let's use that one.So I have to tell you this, I have to say it, I think my single- greatest asset of any assets I have is my temperament and I know how to win. But it's my temperament, it's my single-greatest asset.And every time you hear it, just remember this is a phony group of lying people. And tell her we want to hear about your policy on jobs, on illegal immigration. I want to hear what she's going to do to stop the jobs from leaving North Carolina and going to Mexico and other places. OK? Let her tell us.Because you know what, folks? She doesn't have a clue, not even a clue. People who have nothing to hide don't smash phones with hammers. They don't. People who have nothing to hide don't bleach -- nobody's ever heard of it -- don't bleach their emails or destroy evidence to keep it from being publicly archived as required under federal law.And she got rid of these emails after Congress, not before, after Congress requested them. Think of that.Can you imagine if I or somebody else did that? Can you imagine if Rudy Giuliani did that? Oh, Rudy, you'd be in such trouble. Poor, Rudy, right? It's unbelievable.Folks, I'm telling you, in history -- in history -- there has never been a situation like is going on with justice and Hillary Clinton. There has never been a situation like is going on with the media protecting Hillary Clinton.Let's do better than that. Let's win on November 8th, OK. Let's win.Hillary Clinton failed to turn over thousands of documents, then tried to shield her criminal conduct by having her chief of staff declare herself to be Hillary Clinton's private attorney. Hillary and her top aides told the FBI and others related in the lawsuit that they couldn't recall or remember, can't remember anything. By the way, if she really can't remember, she can't be president. She doesn't remember anything!She doesn't even remember whether or not she was instructed on how to use emails. Were you instructed on how to use it? I can't remember.But that's in addition to the guy who set up the server. Remember him? And he pleaded the Fifth Amendment. What are we going to do with this guy? What happened? He pleaded the Fifth, right? He pleaded the Fifth. Where is he? Where is he? Is he living? Where is he?He pleaded the Fifth and that was the end, we never heard about him again. Boy, I'll tell you, this is like a third-world country, folks. It's terrible.This is really, if we bring it up, this is like Watergate, only it's worse, because here our foreign enemies were in a position to hack our most sensitive national security secrets. No one takes all the risks Hillary Clinton took unless they're trying to cover up massive, massive crimes.Hillary Clinton using, and you know this, she was using State Department to dole out special favors and access to her friends and to her donors, totally special favors. It's called pay for play.One example of pay for play is what the Clintons did in Haiti.So let me stop here for a second and say how much we appreciate the Haitian-American community in Florida and across our country. And we've had a great relationship with that community.We send our prayers to the many still suffering in Haiti from the earthquake.But while Haiti has suffered, the Clintons and their pals have totally cashed in. Bill and Hillary's brothers have signed housing deals in Haiti and one wound up on the board of a gold mining company.Clinton Foundation donors have seen the Clintons pave the way for their investments. In one deal, Hillary Clinton set aside environmental and labor rules to help a South Korean company, with a record of violating workers rights, set up what amounts to a sweatshop in Haiti. The facility has produced only a fraction of the jobs it promised and faces reports of wage theft all over the place.People are asking, where did all the money go?This November, it's up to the American people to stop the Clintons from raiding America the way they've raided so many other people and places over the years.One of the groups in America that have been harmed the most by Hillary Clinton's policies are African Americans. She sees them only as votes, not as people worthy of a better future. It's called vote for me now, I'll do lots of things, and then you get the vote, I'll see you in four years, folks.Liar.Many African Americans have succeeded greatly in this country. We honor and protect, we really do, we protect these total achievements. So many have really, they've just succeeded and I have such respect and admiration for that success.But that includes, and I have to say, lowering taxes, because we're going to do things for them, for everyone, lowering taxes on small-business owners to 15 percent.We're going to lower taxes on our businesses to keep our jobs. We're going to lower taxes on all businesses so that jobs don't leave our country.But millions of African Americans in our inner cities remain trapped in poverty, joblessness and failing schools. And these are the worst schools you'll ever see. The Democratic Party has run inner cities for 50, 60, 70 and even a hundred years.Forty percent of African-American children live in poverty, including 45 percent of those under the age of 6. Fifty-eight percent of African American youth are not working, they can't get a job.Approximately 2,900 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year, and nearly 4,000 people have been killed in Chicago since President Obama took office. And that's his home community.Nationwide, think of this, nationwide, African Americans are nearly 60 percent of the murder victims under the age of 22. This is a national crisis. And anybody who fails to understand that is not fit to seek the presidency of the United States.To those African Americans and Hispanics suffering in crime and poverty, I say very simply give Donald Trump a chance.What do you have to lose? We're going to bring back your jobs, rebuild your cities, give parents and students school choice. We're going to make your communities safe so you don't get shot when you walk down the street with your child.What do you have to lose? Nothing! I will not let you down.We're going to push a new civil rights agenda. We believe every American has the right to a safe community, a great education and government that protects their jobs, not gives their jobs away to foreign countries.This weekend, I had the honor to join a church service in Detroit at the great Faith Ministries International. It was an amazing experience. You probably saw it. It was a really incredible experience.I will fight for Detroit. I will fight for Chicago. I will fight for Baltimore and D.C. and, by the way, will I be fighting for North Carolina, that I can tell you...... and for every part of this nation. And I will fight to bring us all together as one American people.I didn't need to do this. I didn't need to do this. It's not easy. It's nasty. It's nasty. I talk about the fact that people in the audience 18 years ago are making more money 18 years ago than they're making today in real wages. A lot of people, don't raise your hands, but a lot of people, I hear that.Eighteen years ago, they made more money than they make today. And today, they're working two jobs in many cases, also partly because of Obamacare, but they're working two jobs and they're working harder.Now, as you get older, maybe it would be nice not to work quite as hard. But I can only say this. I've also gotten older and I'm working a hell of a lot harder than I've ever worked before, that I can tell you.True. True. I will fight to bring back our jobs, and that means all those jobs lost right here in North Carolina and every other state in our great union.Let me quote the same passage from the Bible, I read on Saturday, from 1 John 4: "No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God lives in us and his love is made complete in us, all of us."Made complete in us. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working toward one people, under one God, saluting one flag.It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace the new American future. In this future, we will, and we have to, we have no choice, it's just like our military, we have no choice, we have to build it strong again. We have no choice.In our military, we have the greatest people, men and women, on earth. But we have to give them what it takes. We have to back them. And we have to back our police, by the way. We have to back our police. We have to be a country of law and order.And in this future, we will respect the dignity of all Americans, and that means great jobs, great schools and great, safe neighborhoods.We will keep our children safe, which requires secure borders, a strong military and supporting law enforcement. Jobs will return, that's right, and the wall will happen.Prosperity will rise, and new factories and plants will come rushing back to our shores. Government corruption will end. And the State Department will answer to the voters, not Hillary Clinton's donors and special interests.So few people remember, but Republicans are the party of Abraham Lincoln. And come November 8th, we will once again have a government of, by and for the people.You must get out and vote. You must bring all of your friends. You must bring everybody. Get out and vote and be vigilant, watch what's happening, watch what's happening, because we're going to win North Carolina, we're going to win a lot of different places. Watch what happens.Because we're going to take back the White House and we're going to make America proud again.We will make America strong again. We are going to make America safe again.And we will make America great again!Thank you! God bless you! Thank you!Thank you, everybody.And they are terrific. They have a great future. They will be taking my job someday.And I will be happy about it.In particular, though, I want to thank Mr. Ron Packard. Where is Ron? Is he here someplace? Yes, he is.Thank you, Ron, fantastic job.And Ms. Deborah Mays, who has really done an incredible job.Deborah, thank you. Thank you. What a great job. For hosting us at this beautiful school.Today we are going to discuss one of the most important issues in this campaign, school choice. But before we do, I want to briefly discuss new revelations about Hillary Clinton's very famous emails.According to the FBI report, the FBI did not find that hostile foreign actors -- and think of this, it's so important -- when they went around -- they went around and were so vigilant, at least as far as this. But they found that hostile foreign actors gained access to the personal email accounts of individuals with whom Clinton was in regular contact. And in doing so, obtained emails sent to or received by Clinton, on her personal account.And every time she talks about the subject, it's different. She's got to get her act together. Remember, Hillary Clinton was email ing about the drone program, among many other extremely sensitive matters. This is yet more evidence that Clinton is unfit to be your commander in chief.By the way, the whole country saw how unfit she was at the town hall last night. Where she refused to take accountability for failed policies in the Middle East that have produced millions of refugees, unleashed horror of radical Islamic terrorism all over, and made us less safe than ever before.Throughout it all, she put the country -- and I mean the entire country -- at risk in order to cover up her pay for play scandals as Secretary of State. These include scandals giving up uranium to Russia, doing favors for UBS Bank, and selling contracts to friends and family in Haiti. It's all about hiding criminal enterprise, and that's what it's about.As part of her criminal cover up, Hillary's -- and you know her staff, you know it well. You'd read it about it all the time. You just read about it and it's getting worse and worse. Hillary Clinton's staff deleted and digitally bleached -- which is acid cleaned -- her emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. That's after receiving, not before. That's after receiving. She gets a subpoena from the United States Congress and she deletes and bleaches.She also, and her staff, destroyed some of her 13 different phones but this time with a hammer. I've never done that.Then when she was interviewed by the FBI, she claims she couldn't remember important events, 39 times. She couldn't even remember whether she was trained or handling classified information. Didn't remember anything about it. So if she really didn't remember, that's a problem. And if she did remember, that's a problem.She even said she didn't know what the letter C stood for, whether it was confidential, classified information, or something. All the while, as Hillary and Bill raked in millions of dollars from special interests, the world was falling apart. Hillary Clinton's policies produced ruin in Libya, Iraq and Syria, absolute ruin and death.She failed in Russia. She failed in China. She failed miserably in North Korea. Her policies unleashed ISIS, spread terrorism and put Iran on a path to nuclear weapons -- not to mention the ransom payments -- those ransom payments. Remember two weeks ago it was $400 million in cash. Well, yesterday we found out that in cash it was $1.7 billion. These are unheard of -- this is cash. This isn't wire transfer, this isn't check. This is cash, $1.7 billion.Then you say, is that going to terror or is that going to people's bank accounts? I actually think it's going to both.On top of it all, Hillary Clinton is trigger happy, totally trigger happy. She has raced to invade, intervene, and topple regimes. She believes in globalism, not Americanism. Everybody understands it. Last night she even falsely said, no American died in Libya. Now I heard that, and I said, could she have forgotten so quickly?Then she also falsely said there is no ground troops in Iraq, even though we have 5,000 military personnel there right now. Iraq is one of the biggest differences in this race. I opposed going in. And I did oppose it, despite the media saying, no, yes, no. I opposed going in. And I opposed the reckless way Hillary Clinton took us out, along with President Obama, letting ISIS fill that big, terrible void.But I was opposed to the war from the beginning, long after my interview with Howard Stern. But three months before the Iraq war started I said in an interview with Neil Cavuto, that perhaps we shouldn't be doing it yet, and that the economy -- these are quotes -- that the economy -- this was on live television -- the economy is a much bigger problem as far as the president is concerned. This was before the war started, by a very short distance.Then on March 25th of 2003, just after the war had started, just days after, just a little while after, I was quoted as saying the war is a mess. And yet, more evidence that I had opposed the war from the start. I said, the war is a mess. So I'm -- television, somewhere.July of 2003, I said I would love to see New York City and some of our cities, and some of the states of our nation get some of the money that's going toward Iraq and other places. Because you know, they really need it and they need it badly. I said that. We have numerous other quotes, too, both before and shortly after.Then in August of 2004, very early in the conflict, extremely early in the conflict, right at the beginning, I made a detailed statement in an interview to Esquire Magazine, so right at the beginning. And by the way, numerous honest reporters said, well, Trump may have said at the beginning, and some said he did say at the beginning because they had Cavuto's clip and other clips, but some said, you know, it doesn't matter because right at the beginning he made very strong statements, many years ago.Here's what Esquire Magazine said. This is a quote, absolute quote, Look at the war in Iraq and the mess that we are in. So right after the war started. I would never have handled it that way. Does anybody really believe that Iraq is going to be a wonderful democracy where people are going to run down to the voting box and gently put in their ballot and the winner is happily going to step up and to lead the country? So it is simply -- I go, come on.Two minutes after we leave there is going to be a revolution. Pretty good. And the meanest, toughest, smartest, most vicious guy will take over. Well, that's going to be combinations of ISIS and Iran. Iran's taking -- they're taking over, among the richest and largest oil reserves in the world. We let them do it, we let them do it. Should have never been in the war, but we should have never, ever have got out of the way the way Barack Obama got us out, along with Hillary Clinton. Because we opened it up for ISIS.So continued. What was the purpose? This is me right at the beginning of the war, in an article. What was the purpose of this whole thing? What was the purpose? Hundreds and hundreds of young people are being killed. And what about the people coming back with no arms and with no legs? Not to mention the other side. All those Iraqi kids who have been blown to pieces.And it turns out that all the reasons for the war are just blatantly wrong. All this for nothing, all this for nothing. This was right at the beginning of the war. Then they see, you know, I see the lies last night -- Donald Trump was always in favor of the war in Iraq. That's why I had to do this. Because the media is so dishonest, so terribly dishonest, and you understand it, you understand and you understand. The media is so terribly dishonest so I had to do this.I ended with, I would have been tougher on terrorism. Bin Laden would have been caught a long time ago, before he was ultimately caught, prior to the downing of the World Trade Center. So this was right at the beginning, and those other statements were before the war even started. And the Howard statement was long before.It was the first time anybody ever asked me about Iraq, and I said, I don't know. I was very -- but that was superseded because before the war, much closer to the war I gave statements that we shouldn't go in. And shortly thereafter, immediately thereafter -- and honestly, a lot of reporters said, hey, right at the beginning he made this statement -- and that statement was a very major story in Esquire Magazine.So I just wanted to set the record straight. There is so much lying going on, and Hillary Clinton lied last night about worse things including her email, but she also lied about this. Had I been in Congress at the time of the invasion, I would have cast a vote in opposition. For years I have been a critic of this kind of reckless foreign invasions and, look, let's face it, interventions -- that's what they are -- that have been a hallmark of trigger happy Hillary and her failed career. She's been a disaster.Here's the bottom line. I was a private citizen. I had no access to briefings or great intelligence surveys, but she did. I had no access to anything, I was a private citizen. Frankly, nobody really cared too much about what I said, I was doing business. I don't even know why I was asked the question. I guess because I was asked the question -- someone else.But I didn't have access to all of the intelligence information that she did and everybody else did. But in Iraq, my judgment was right and hers -- with all of this information and all of this great intelligence information -- was wrong. Along with a lot of other people, in all fairness. It was a big mistake. Totally destabilized the Middle East. It was a big mistake, death, death to so many people.Hillary Clinton is always complaining about what's wrong. I just watched her on the tarmac. She tried to make up for her horrible performance last night. It was a horrible performance. So she went on the tarmac and told more lies. But she's been there -- remember this -- she's always talking about things that she's going to do. But she's been there for more than 30 years and she's never done anything about it, never done anything.And all you have to do is look at New York State, where she ran for senator. She said she will bring jobs back to New York State. It's a disaster. No jobs have come back. Jobs have left New York State, upstate New York and the areas that she was talking about. They are disasters. All you have to do is look at New York State. She said she was going to bring tremendous jobs back. It would be wonderful -- just like she's saying now.She wouldn't know how to bring a job back. She wouldn't have a clue. So it's all talk, but nothing happens. And that's what's going to happen with our country on jobs. And nobody is going to bring jobs back like Donald Trump. I will be the greatest jobs producing president that God ever created, and I say that with my pastor is in the front row. My pastor. Believe me.So we're on track now to spend -- listen to this -- $6 trillion -- $6 trillion. Could have rebuilt our country twice. All together on wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and the Middle East. Meanwhile, massive portions of our country are in a state of total disrepair. It's time to rebuild America.And when I say that, we will also, before we get totally started, we will take out ISIS. Remember that. We have no choice, we have no choice. Too many Americans living in our inner cities have not been included in the American dream.We are a nation, and we're one nation. When any part of our country hurts, our whole country hurts. My goal as president will be to ensure that every child in this nation, African American, Hispanic American, all Americans, will be placed on the ladder to success. And I define that as great education and a great job.The ladder rests on a fundamental foundation. We need safety. There's such danger in our inner cities. There's such danger in our communities. In order to help our children succeed, our first duty is to ensure that every kid in America can grow up in a safe community. You read what's happening, you see what's happening. You can't have prosperity without security.This is the new civil rights agenda of our time, the right to a safe community, a quality education and a wonderful job.Including for those great students that I met just a little while ago. They're going to do great, they are really going great. You've done such a great job with the education here.Our campaign represents the long awaited chance to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new and strong American future. There's no failed policy more in need of urgent change than our government run education monopoly. And you know in the back that's exactly what it is. They're protecting a lot of people that have a lot of really high paying jobs, and they're not doing the jobs like Deborah. That I can tell you.And Deborah, they're making a lot more money than you, but we'll have to talk about that later.The Democratic Party has trapped millions of African American and Hispanic youth in failing government schools that deny them the opportunity to join the ladder of American success. It's time to break up that monopoly. Have to do it.I want every single inner city child in America who is today trapped in a failing school to have the freedom, the civil right, to attend the school of their choice. Their parents will choose the finest school. They will attend that school. This includes private schools, traditional public schools, magnet schools and charter schools, which must be included in any definition of school choice. Our government spends more than enough money to easily pay for this initiative, with billions and billions of dollars to be left over. It's simply a matter of putting students first, not the education bureaucracy. And that's what's happened.Let's run through the numbers. At the state and federal level, the United States spends more than $620 billion on K-12 education each year. That's an average of about $12,296 for every student enrolled in our elementary and secondary public...... of costs. The other roughly $560 billion spent on K- 12 education comes from the states.We spend more per student than almost any other major country in the world, and we're doing very poorly in terms of A-list. We spend more by far, and we're doing very poorly. So obviously Common Core does not work.Our largest cities spend some of the largest amounts of money on public schools, it's their biggest cost. New York City spends $20,226 per pupil, Baltimore spends $15,287 per student, Chicago spends $11,976 per student, and Los Angeles it's $10,602.Just imagine if each student in these school systems was given a scholarship for this amount of money allowing them and their family to choose the public or private school of their choice. Wouldn't that be great?Not only would this empower families but it would create a massive education market that is competitive and produces better outcomes. And I mean far better outcomes. These schools would then cater to the needs of the individual student and family, not the needs of the Teachers Union -- which is a tremendous force and a tremendous barrier to getting done what you want to get done. And they will be a beneficiary, because they will be also working in these great schools. That's what's going to happen.They will come in...... school choice. It will be done by re-prioritizing existing federal dollars, we have to re-prioritize. Specifically my plan would use $20 billion of existing federal dollars to establish a block grant for the 11 million school age kids living in absolute poverty. We will give states the option to allow these funds to follow the student through the public or private school they attend. The parents will be so happy. Number one, we'll have safe streets. And number two, they will walk their child to a school that they want to be in. How about that? How is that?What a difference. What a difference. Compare that to today where people say, how do you do it? How do you do it? Distribution of this grant will favor states that have private school choice and charter roles, encouraging them to participate. They're going to be encouraged to participate.This $20 billion will instantly extend choice to millions and millions more students. A state like Ohio will benefit greatly from these new funds. Ohio is a leader in school choice. Ohio has five private school choice programs that serve over 30,000 students, and 384 charter schools serving 143,844 students. Great job.But the $20 billion is only a beginning. As president, I will establish the national model of providing school choice to every American child living in poverty. That means that we want every disadvantaged child to be able to choose local public, private or charter school, a magnet school, any of these schools that is best for them and for their family, for mom and dad.Each state will develop its own formula, but we want the dollars to follow the student. So important, the dollars will follow the student, and the student will follow the right school. They're going to follow the right school. Nine in ten dollars spent on K-12 education is spent at the state and local level.To achieve this long-term goal, we will have to make this a shared national mission, to bring hope to every child in every city in this land. In our country, in our great country, I will use the pulpit of the presidency to campaign for this in all 50 states. And I will call upon the American people to elect officials at the city, state and federal levels who support school choice. So important.My administration will partner with the leadership of inner city -- and I mean any one of them, any one of them, any inner city in America -- Chicago, Baltimore, Detroit, Cleveland. I Love Cleveland. We love Cleveland.Got a great experience in Cleveland. That's all I know. And by the way, your police department did a phenomenal job.And that's any city that is willing to run a pilot program to provide school choice to every child in that community. In Baltimore, for instance, that would mean more than $15,000 in funds available per student. Can't beat that. I'm confident that the politicians will not be able to suppress the will of the people anymore. It's too much, too strong. Eventually they break. The politicians, they always break. They certainly break on trade for our country without making a good deal, right? They break on an hourly basis. If we can put a man on the moon, dig out the Panama Canal, and win two world...... can provide school choice to every disadvantaged child in American.If the states collectively contribute another $110 billion of their own education budgets toward school choice, on top of the $20 billion in federal dollars, that could provide $12,000 in school choice funds to every single K-12 student who today is living in poverty. The money will follow the student. That means the student will be able to attend that public, private, charter, magnet school of their choice and each state will develop its own system that works best for them.They can develop systems the likes of which you've never seen, and some states will do better than others. And then they get those people to come to your state. Then other things will be happening. It will be so exciting. It's not really a question of the money because we'll be saving money and having a far better education.As your president, I will be the nation's biggest cheerleader for school choice. I understand many stale, old politicians will resist. There will be a lot of pressure, they'll get a lot of pressure on that. But it's time for our country to start thinking big and correct, once again.We spend too much time quibbling over the smallest things, when we should spend our time dreaming about the great adventures that lie ahead. I will also support merit pay for teachers, the great teachers.So that we reward our best teachers, instead of the failed tenure system that rewards bad teachers and punishes the good ones. And the bad ones are making the same money and sometimes more, than the good ones.At the same time, we have to ensure that jobs are waiting for our young kids when they graduate high school and college. My policy will add millions of new jobs for the future, especially for African American and Hispanic communities, produce such great jobs.My plan to lift restrictions on the production of American energy will not only make home energy bills a lot cheaper -- your electric bills will be a lot less -- but it will add an estimated half a million jobs per year. By reducing radical regulations and over taxation -- we're bringing your taxes way down -- we can bring thousands of new companies into our poorest communities.Crucially, my trade reforms will create a manufacturing revival in America. As you know, all of your companies -- Cleveland is a great example -- but your companies are being ripped out of your community and your people are being left jobless. And your governments being left with taxes. We have nearly $800 billion -- think of it, $800 billion annual trade deficit with the world. We trade with the world. We have a trade deficit of $800 billion.Who is negotiating these deals? Who's doing it?That's actually very good. Hillary Clinton is absolutely a good answer. Hillary Clinton and people like Hillary Clinton that haven't got a clue, and the clue they do have goes to their donors and the special interests, believe me. That's money coming straight out of the states like Ohio, and Pennsylvania, and Michigan and Maine and so many others. I've seem so many, it's so sad.When I campaigned during the primaries, I saw everything, and it was so sad to see communities that have just been left jobless, where the companies have moved to other countries. Mexico in particular, but other countries.By ending foreign currency manipulation, product dumping and other predatory trading practices, we will be able to open thousands of new plants and factories across America. In driving over today, I saw so many places, factories, 20, 30 years ago that were thriving, and they're just dead, worthless. A real estate person, you wouldn't pay anything, worthless. We'll put them back into action again.The future is filled with limitless possibilities for our nation, and exciting opportunities for our wonderful children. We all have to do and we just have to work -- we all have to work. But we all have to cut our ties with the failed politics of the past. You have to cut your ties, have to cut your ties. These are the people that put us in this situation. They're not going to take us out,.They're not going to take us out. That includes in wars.And Hillary Clinton created a lot of the problems, and now she's saying how she's going to take us out. She doesn't have a clue. Not even a little clue. We have had such a failed foreign policy with the people we have now, a failed education policy, a totally failed economic policy, and underneath it all a failed political system that rewards politicians for how many donors they have or how many journalists they know, not how many Americans they help to live better and more prosperous lives.That's how they get rewarded. They will talk to you and talk to you. They will come in to Cleveland. She will be saying what a wonderful job she's going to do. She will get your vote. Then she will say see you in four years. She might even say see you in four years, suckers, because that's what it is.See you in four years, suckers. But the failures of the past are about to end. That ending begins on a very special date for this country, November 8. Get out and vote. We will have one American nation. We will be one American people. We're fighting to give every child in every forgotten stretch of this country the chance to live out their dreams in safety and in peace.That means a safe neighborhood, a quality education, and a secure, high-paying and exciting job. We only have bad jobs. We don't have good jobs anymore. Many of our good jobs have left. They're gone.This is how we will rebuild our future. This is how we will make America great again for everyone.God bless you, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Appreciate it, people. Thank you.The fact that so many encrusted old political insiders oppose this incredible campaign, this incredible movement, is the best proof you will ever need that we are fighting for real change, not partisan change. Not change for the donors.We're fighting for all Americans, Democrats, Republicans, Independents, conservatives, liberals. Even liberals who failed us in this corrupt, corrupt, corrupt system. We're fighting for everyone who doesn't have a voice. And I will tell you, the campaign contributions coming in are unbelievable. Small donors, $61 a pop.And I'm spending my money. I am spending a fortune. I am spending a lot. I'm putting up my money. And we're being helped by small donors, and we're setting records. And we have done some job.But I will say if we don't make it -- despite what they say, if we don't make it. They're all saying it doesn't matter. What you've done has never been done before. It's one of the great phenomena. Let me tell you. If we don't make it, it's the greatest waste of time, energy and money that I can ever think of. I will tell you, we don't make it.But we're going to make it. And polls came out today...Polls came out today where we're up in Ohio. We're up in Florida. We're up in North Carolina. Up.We're up nationwide. CNN two days ago, up nationwide.So I just want to tell you folks we're going to get it there. We've been abused long enough. As a country we've been abused long enough.We're also fighting for every region of this country. For every part of Florida and every single pat of America, from Pensacola -- great place -- to Pittsburgh. From Baltimore to Baton Rouge we're fighting for ever last city and every last person in the country, everybody.Hillary Clinton, and you can see that from those emails...... is a very dishonest candidate of the past.Ours is the campaign of the future. In this future we're going to pursue new trade policies that put American workers first. And we're going to keep our jobs in our country.We're not going to let them take our jobs anymore, folks. We're not going to let it happen. It's been happening long enough. And the reason they don't do anything about it is because the special interests and the donors control our politicians.And they control Hillary Clinton. And it's never, ever going to happen.Take a look at New York state. When she was a senator from New York state, she campaigned by saying that she was going to bring jobs back to New York state. New York state is a disaster. She got elected, she did nothing. She said see you later in four years. She got elected.Take a look at what happened to New York state. The jobs left. The jobs left. Worse than just about any place in the country. She didn't do a thing. It was all talk and no action. And that's what's going to happen here. She's all talk. She's no action. Believe me, she wouldn't know a job if it stared her in the face.I will be...I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created. That I can tell you.And by the way, is there any place better, safer or more fun to be than at a Trump rally?Having a good time.So all the people who got NAFTA wrong, and by the way, signed by Bill Clinton perhaps the worst trade deals ever made in the history not of the country, in the history of the world. There's never been a deal so bad as NAFTA. It's a one-way highway out of this country for our jobs and for our money. And we're going to renegotiate that one very quickly, let me tell you.And then you look at what's happening with China. And they're trying to give us the Transpacific Partnership now, which will be a total disaster.That Hillary Clinton called the gold standard. Barack Obama wants it. He's pressing it. It will be, and I say this, nothing can be as bad as NAFTA but it's going to be pretty close. So I just want to tell you we're not approving the Transpacific Partnership. Just another catastrophe.Our trade deficit with the world, with the world, all this work, our trade deficit with the world is almost $800 billion a year. You think we have good negotiators?We've lost one-third of our manufacturing jobs since Bill and Hillary Clinton gave us NAFTA. China is manipulating its currency and taking our jobs. That's called cheating.Sell lots of condos to China. We can do great with China. And I'm not blaming China. I'm blaming our leaders for being so stupid.We're going to stop companies...... from leaving our country and keep those jobs right here in Pensacola.But right here in America.The era of economic surrender is over.We will also have a very, very strong border.That stops people and drugs. And those drugs are poisoning our youth and poisoning our people from illegally pouring into our country. And we will build a wall. And Mexico will pay for the wall.And when we tell them the consequences are a 35 percent tax to cross a now very strong border, when we become president, and the Border Patrol agent 16,500 endorsed Donald Trump. They've never done that before. Never done it before for a presidential candidate.And when these companies that want to leave and then think they're going to sell their product to us. No problem. Just come across the suckers. You know they call us the suckers. Not going to happen.And let me tell you, when they hear there is a tax to pay to get their product into the country, guess what? They're not going to be leaving, folks, 100 percent. They're never leaving.Right now you're being drained. As you stand here tonight you have companies from this area and from all areas of the country negotiating deals to move out of the United States. Let me tell you something, when I'm president that's not going to happen. So easy. So easy.So easy. And the reason other people don't bring it up, including your wonderful politicians and including your so-called leader, if you can call him a leader...If you can call him a leader.Is that they're controlled by their donors and their special interests. So they don't want it brought up. They'll talk about it, but they're not going to do anything.Me, I'm not controlled, folks. Me, I'm not controlled.We're going to take care of that. We're going to take care of that situation so quickly and you're going to be so happy and you're going to know you're going to have your company here for a long time, believe me. In this new future we are going to raise your wages. You're going to have competition. People are going to be looking for employees. They're going to be looking. Companies -- companies are going to be looking for people to work in that company. Right now you can't get a job. And all our good jobs are gone.Household incomes are over $4,000 less today than they were 16 years ago. Think of it. My tax, trade, energy, immigration, regulation reform which is a huge problem. We'll get your salaries and your wages up, up, up.Remember...Many people 18 years ago in this room were making more money in wage. They were making more money than they're making today. And today they're working two jobs. Now they're getting older and they're working harder. It's supposed to be the other way.So we're going to bring your jobs back. You're going to have your choice and you're going to do very well. And you're going to say November 8th was a very important day...Very important day.Thank you, everybody. Thank you.Wow, it's a lot of people.Wow. Thank you very much, everybody.I love North Carolina. We're going to have a big victory in North Carolina. In 56 days, we are going to win this state and we are going to win back The White House. Believe me.And by the way, we have thousands of people outside trying to get in. Would anybody like to give up their place? Anybody? No. No.Thank you all very much. It's a great honor.To win back The White House, however, you must get out and vote. And remember that this means early voting, which begins on October 20th. So you have to go out, vote, on the 8th. Or early vote starting from October 20th.This is our chance, in my opinion, it's our last chance. I really believe that. It's our last chance to take it back, to fix our rigged system, and to create prosperity for each and every American. True.It's our last chance, folks, this is it. And after that, we have a whole new different country. And you are not going to like it very much.Our vision of hope stands in stark contrast to my opponent's campaign of hate. Hillary Clinton has been running a hate-filled and negative campaign with no policy, no solutions, and no new ideas. True.By contrast, I have been going around the country offering very detailed plans for reform and change. All of these reform plans are available on our website, and they are extensive. But we have no choice, we have no choice.While my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable.I call you hard-working American patriots who love your country and want a better future for all our people. True. Your mothers and fathers, soldiers and sailors, carpenters and welders, you are lawyers, you are very rich people in some cases. You are at the top of your class, you are at the top of your university, you are professors, you are everybody. You are everybody.You're Democrats, you're Independents, you're Republicans. Above all else, you are Americans and you're entitled to leadership that honors you, cherishes you, and totally defends you and that is what you're going to get if you vote for Donald Trump.Every American is entitled to be treated with dignity and respect in our country. Every American.Whether you vote for me or whether you vote for someone else, I will be your champion in the White House. That, I can promise.Hillary Clinton represents only the insiders, the donors, and special interests. She talks change but why hasn't she given it in 35 years? For 35 years she's been here, why hasn't she given change, she never will in a million years. He won't do it.Folks, come on up.These are not deplorable people. That, I can tell you. Come on over.Come on up. I'll pick at random. Who wants to speak? Come on.Come on.And don't forget, we're going to protect our Second Amendment. We're going to repeal and replace horrible Obamacare.And never ever forget Supreme Court Justices. Never.Come on up.Wow. Wow. That's -- isn't that great? And these people are so representative of everybody throughout our country. So I have some thoughts on Clinton's remarks and I'll be sharing them momentarily. But first, I want to tell you what I'm going to do to make America far better than it is right now and you know there's room to make America great again.We've outlined the detailed plan on trade, on immigration. Build a wall. We're going to build a wall. We're going to build a wall.And who is going to pay for the wall? Hundred percent. Hundred percent. They may not know it yet but they're paying for the wall.On rebuilding the military, on changing our foreign policy, I've delivered a plan on defeating Islamic terrorism. On reforming our tax code, on unleashing American energy and on providing school choice to every disadvantage child in America.We've released policy after policy, solution after solution every day. We're putting forward new ideas to make your life better. We need change. We have to have change and it has to happen quickly.We're going in the wrong direction like nobody has ever thought possible. The change will start right away the moment I take my oath of office. Right away.On my first day, we're going to immediately terminate every single unconstitutional executive order signed by President Obama.Then I'm going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last eight years. All needless job-killing regulations will be canceled.Millions of new jobs will come pouring in. We're going to lift restrictions on American energy. This will create another half a million new jobs a year and that's just the beginning.On my first day in office, I am going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace, I just said it, Obamacare.And this will save another two million jobs. It is a disaster. You see what's happening, your premiums are going through the roof. Your deductibles are so high you'll never get to use it hopefully because the only way you'll use it is it has to be a long slow death. You'll never get to use it.I am also going to propose a massive tax cut to unleash prosperity in every city and every state in our country. Big tax code.I'm going to instruct the Department of Commerce to immediately begin a review of all foreign trade practices that unfairly hurt American manufacturing. You know what's happening to your area.I will use every lawful presidential power to achieve relief for our workers and we're going to protect our workers, not like it's been for a long time now. Our workers are going to come first. We are going to protect our workers.You can read the full seven-point trade plan on my website. But I have to tell you, when it comes to trade, we're going to renegotiate some of those horrible deals and, boy, is NAFTA bad.North Carolina has lost more than 4 in 10 manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. Think of that, 4 in 10, 40 percent. Bill Clinton signed it and Hillary Clinton supported it and it's been perhaps the worst trade deal ever signed not only in this country but actually in the history of the world. There's never been a deal like this.It's a one-way street out of the United States and into Mexico and other countries. Not going to be that way anymore, folks. Right here in Asheville, you've lost one in five manufacturing jobs since China joined the World Trade Organization, another Hillary back disaster.Hillary Clinton owes all of you an apology and I think you'll get that apology right around the same time that she hands over the 33,000 emails that she delivered.And by the way, Hillary destroyed her emails after, think of this, after she received a congressional subpoena and nothing happened. She gets a subpoena and she said destroy them. What's going on?They used a special software that most people, even sophisticated people in that world don't even know about. They bleached them. She even made her 13 different phones disappear and some of them, she hammered with a hammer.Explain that one. I've never done that.She obviously had a whole lot to hide including her pay-for-play scandals as Secretary of State. Pay-for-play with UBS, with Russian Uranium, with contracts for her friends and her family in Haiti. Nothing is so dangerous to American democracy as when a public official puts their Federal Office up for sale and that's what happened here. That's what happened here.Hillary believes she's above the law but she also believes, and you know this, she really believes that she is above the law and so far she's turned out to be. What happened to our laws?After months of hiding from the press, Hillary Clinton came out and finally told the world how she feels about the people of this country. She said tens of millions of patriotic Americans are a basket of deplorable. How can you be President -- how can you be president for so many people?She talks about people like they're objects, not human beings. She said half of our supporters are irredeemable and not American and describes the other half as having run out of options.What she can't understand or accept is that the great majority of this country now sees right through these lies and deceptions of a failed political establishment and frankly soon to be a failed politician.The people want change. They want justice and they want a government that puts the American people first.Whether our supporters have lost a job to a factory that moved to another country or whether a captain in the police department or teacher at a local school, they're united by their deep and sophisticated understanding of how our political system has abandoned the people.Our system, folks, is rigged. It's a word I've been using for a long time and now it's picked up by everybody. They're all using it but our system is rigged.For those who have been hit by hard times, they understand better than anyone that it's Clinton's Wall Street agenda that has crushed the middle class of this country, crushed it. Hillary Clinton spoke with hatred in her heart for these working-class Americans, absolute hatred in her heart.Could we have a doctor, please? A doctor. A doctor, please. Thank you. A doctor. Thank you. Thank you, doctor. Thank you.It is about 100 degrees in here, folks. Thank you so much. We love our supporters, right? Let's give her a hand.Yes. Get some water, please. Water. Kevin, get some water, please. Take your time. Don't worry. We have all the time, right?That's a great supporter, an unbelievable person, been here for a long time and I just want to thank you. That's right. That's great. Thank you, darling.And whether it was a supporter or not, we're going to take care of him. That's what we're talking about, right? Right? That's what we're talking.And it is pretty hot in here, folks. It's like pretty hot. Hillary looks down on people, all the people, and frankly, these are people that have been so unbelievable for our country.She looks down on the carpenters and the plumbers and the electricians. She looks down on police officers and soldiers and firefighters and everybody supporting our campaign and we have large chunks, we have everybody supporting us, folks, everybody.We have people that have been so successful. We have some that haven't quite been as successful. Let me tell you, we have everybody because everybody knows what a mess our country is in.She looks down on the people who cook your meals, driver your cars and dig the call that power her electricity. What she's done to the minors is unbelievable.Obama and Clinton have destroyed the lives of the minors. That, I can tell you. And the steelworkers our next and you see that coming. She called these Americans every name in the book, racist, sexist, xenophobic, Islamophobic, she said they were not even American, right?Anybody's xenophobic, I don't think so. I don't think so. Never in history has a major party presidential candidate so viciously demonized the American voter.She was attacking millions of moms and dads who love their children and want a better future for all Americans. That's what they want. Watching these parents tell their children about Hillary Clinton's attacks.Let me ask you this question, is there any place in America more fun to be than a Trump rally, right? Right? No place. No place.Watching these parents tell their children about Hillary's attacks. To every kid in America tonight, I want you to know that your parents are working so hard to make your life better and to make your country better.It's OK. The cameras are following us that is why.See now, the dishonest media will not report that. They won't report it. They say we're bad people. They're not going to report that.So here's the story, folks. It's a few people out of thousands. The dishonest media, these people, the most dishonest people you're going to ever find, they won't report that.They won't report the gesture. They won't report anything. But the good news is the cameras follow it. That's the only way I could get the cameras to move so they'll be able to see how many thousands of people we have here, how many thousands of people are outside but the media is disgusting.Let me tell you honestly, somebody said, what have you learned most. I've learned, number one, how great the American people are and, number two, how dishonest the media is, totally dishonest.Look at that horrible sign. Look at that horrible disgusting sign. Look at that. Look at that horrible disgusting. Did you see the sign? Did you see it?Now let me tell you, nobody's going to report that. They'll say we were rude because we shouted them down. When are we going to get smart, folks? When are we going to get smart?You know the truth is that's why we have a movement. That is why we have a movement because we're not going to take it anymore I'm telling you.We're going to put sanity back into the White House. We are going to have law and order. We're going to have safety.We're going to have jobs. We're going to have education. We're going to protect our Second Amendment. We're going to do a lot of great things.And if I get the chance, I will fight right alongside of our people to deliver a much, much better future for everyone. We are people -- many of the people in this audience that made more money in real wages 18 years ago than they do today and they're working harder today and they've got two jobs. Not going to happen.Clinton made remarks at a high-dollar fundraiser in Wall Street. Her goal is simple, to bully the American voter out of voting for change. The people who rigged the system want to keep things exactly as they are. It's been very good.They want to keep our terrible trade deals and they are terrible. They don't want renegotiation because they're on the other side of a lot of those horrible deals that are moving to Mexico and other places. They like them just fine but it's killing the American job.They want to trap children and failing government schools. They want massive regulation to keep small businesses from being able to compete with other businesses all over the world. Hillary Clinton can never be president of this country, not.What she just said shows what a low opinion she has of the American people. We just can't let that happen, folks. We can't let it happen. You got to get out, November 8th, you got to get out.October 20th, you start sending in those votes. You got to do it. Earlier today, I had a chance to spend some time with some of our most amazing Americans. I spent the afternoon with the National Guard Association of the United States. Incredible people.These are the heroes who rescue our people in disasters and who fight in our wars. These heroes are a permanent testament to the courage and character of our nation. We also honor and remember the lives of the service members who have made the ultimate sacrifice.There is no greater love than the love shown by the men and women who have laid down their lives for this country and for its people. Nothing greater than that. Our debt to them is eternal and everlasting.Let me also pause for a moment to recognize Shelby County Police Officer Tim Brackeen who was shot in the line of duty and died today leaving behind a wife and beautiful child. We mourn this terrible loss that we pledge to always stand with our incredible police and law enforcers.In addition to supporting our law enforcement, we must also ensure that our men and women in the Armed services have the best equipment, resources and tools anywhere in the world. We don't anymore. We don't.We are totally depleted. We have the greatest people on earth but our military services are depleted with the bad equipment, the old equipment, it's a terrible thing that's happened.We must provide them with the best medical care while they serve and the best medical care when they return home to civilian life. The veteran scandals that have occurred under this administration and that have been dismissed by my opponent are a permanent stain on our government.It's just one more way Hillary Clinton only looks out for herself. We must take care of our veterans and that includes giving veterans a card that gives them the right to choose treatment in either public VA facilities or the private doctor of their choice. I have to do it.You look at what's happening where people are waiting on line five days, six days, seven days, 10 days and they're dying, 22 suicides a day, 22 suicides a day. Who can even believe that number when a simple solution could be at hand? A prescription, a small operation and they're dying and they're killing themselves and they've done so much for us. It's not going to happen any longer believe me.Just today, we learned that the VA has violated a federal law by failing to make its performance records available to consumers. The scandals never seem to end but they will end when I'm elected president and it will end quickly.And Hillary Clinton was quoted fairly recently as saying, the VA is fine, the VA is working. Not working, Hillary.I've got to know so many veterans. Believe me, it's not working. Nothing makes me more proud than to have the support of the men and women who wear the uniform.We've received endorsements from 120 generals and admirals. These are the people who know how to keep our country safe. These are our fighters. These are our great, great fighters. So I want to thank each and every one of them and there are more coming.Just today, I was profoundly humbled to gain the endorsement of 13 Medal of Honor recipients, 13.And I can't even begin to say how much it means to me to have their support. These are truly great heroes.Also today, I was thrilled to announce that Ambassador R. James Woolsey, former head of the CIA, one of the most respected people anywhere in our government, is now a senior advisor to our campaign. This is one of the most respected people. Great man.We are on a mission of change and that includes a new agenda for our inner cities, our inner cities, folks. Our inner cities are a mess. The Democratic Party has run the inner cities for 50, 60, 70 and even a hundred years straight.Democratic politicians like Clinton disrespect these voters and take them for granted. They want the vote and they say see you in four years. They do nothing.Remember Hillary's words super predator. Remember that. Remember those words. Super predator, those are her words. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty including, listen to this, 45 percent of those under the age of six. They live in poverty.Their schools are failing and 58 percent of African-American youths are not employed. Approximately 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year. For those suffering and hurting, I say, give Donald Trump a chance. I will fix it. What do you have to lose? You have nothing to lose. It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse.You can go to war -- and you know this is true, you can go to Afghanistan. You can go to war-torn countries and you will find that it's safer than being in the middle of some of our inner cities.We're going to give security and safety. We're going to give education. We're going to get jobs. We're going to bring our jobs back from Mexico and all of these countries that have been stealing our job.We're going to get people working and we're going to love it. I will fight for Detroit and Chicago and Baltimore and for every neglected part of this nation and they're neglected by the Democrats.And I will fight to bring us all together as one American people, I will do that. And I say to the African-American people, I say it again and again, I will fix it and really what do you have to lose, it can't get any worse, what do you have to lose? I will fix it.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag, one American flag.What's going on today, folks? What's going on today? It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace the new American future.This is a future we will respect. The dignity of all Americans and that means great jobs, great schools and great neighborhoods and it also means safety, it means safety.We will have the steadfast support for America and for its law enforcement. Everybody wants that. Everybody wants it. Jobs will return. Prosperity will rise and new factories will come rushing back to North Carolina and every other state in our country.Government corruption will end. Honesty will be restored. Republicans are the party and remember these, folks, it's like people forget. We have to embrace it. Republicans are the party of Abraham Lincoln and come November 8th, we will once again have a government of by and for the people.We will make America prosperous and successful again. We will make America safe again. You'll be able to walk down the street of your inner cities and not be shot. We will make America strong again and we will make America great again.Thank you, everybody. Thank you. November 8th, get out and vote. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.We are making very big progress, I can tell you that. And in Iowa, virtually every poll has us ahead and we are going to win Iowa.So I just wanna thank you, I love being back here, I have so many friends in Iowa. And I'll tell you what, I enjoyed the primaries and I'm enjoying this even more, so thank you very much. Thank you very much.Spending time here really has been one of the -- really -- and I can say this, one of the great, great joys of campaigning. And especially with all of the friends we've developed so it's fantastic.But here's what's most important. Together, we're gonna win Iowa in November.To be specific, November 8th, we have to be specific and we're going to win the White House and we are going to make America great again, OK? We're going to make America great again.The White House will become the people's house that will happen. We will tackle and fix the problems that have gone unsolved for years and believe me, there are many of them.We're going to fix our crumbling infrastructure, renegotiate our horrible trade deals, they are disastrous. Free children from failing government schools, eliminate government waste and create a fair, simple and efficient tax code to add millions and millions or new jobs, which we need.Prosperity will rise, poverty will recede and wages will finally begin to grow and they will grow rapidly. If they don't, I'll be very disappointed in myself, I will tell you. This is a campaign about big ideas designed to help everyday people.In recent days, we've rolled out one new policy idea after another on taxes, on school choice -- so important -- on foreign policy, on defeating terrorisms, on rebuilding our military, on veterans care and unleashing American energy.Oh we're having a good time, we're having a good time. Go ahead, go ahead. There's always one.Thank you, men.All right you can get them, thank you.Thank you. Thank you very much. That's great. That's all right. Single person. They'll end up with more publicity than all of you put together.So we're going to unleash American energy, we're going to put those jobs back like you have not seen in your lifetimes, you have not seen before.By contrast, Hillary Clinton is running a policy-free campaign. She offers no ideas, no solutions, and only hatred and derision. It's true. You saw that.I'm running to be a president for all Americans, Democrat, Republican, independent, everyone. Whether you vote for me -- right?Whether you vote for me, or whether you vote for someone else, I will be still your greatest champion. Right?Our support comes from every part of American and from every walk of life. We have the support of cops and soldiers and carpenters and welders and accountant's and lawyers, the young and the old, and millions of working class families all over this nation. We cover everybody. This is a movement like nobody's ever seen before. It really is. It's a movement...They're considering it a great phenomena. I consider it a great phenomena if we win on November 8th. That's what I consider.Well my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable, I call you hard-working American patriots who love your country and want a better future for all of our people.Put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lied to Congress and sell government favors and access through the Clinton Foundation. It's this attitude of arrogance that explains why Hillary Clinton made 13 phones disappear, including with a hammer -- so the FBI couldn't see them and why she bleached her emails after a congressional subpoena -- that's after the subpoena came. This isn't before. That's after the subpoena came.Now the people who destroyed the emails are all pleading the fifth amendment in front of Congress today. How you seen? Have you seen what's going on in front of Congress? Fifth amendment, fifth amendment, fifth amendment. Horrible. Horrible. And will anything happen? That's going to be the question. We're going to find out.Anyone watching today's hearing in Congress knows that Hillary Clinton's actions are far more corrupt that we ever imagined. It's happened today. This is far bigger and a far bigger scandal than Watergate ever was. But with Watergate, we had justice, we had a Justice Department that went after the people.Here's something that just -- nobody's ever seen anything like this, folks. What we're witnessing is a first. We've never ever seen anything like this. This is a scandal that threatens national security and that involves a multimillion-dollar pay for play scheme between the Secretary of State and her foundation. Whether it's her emails, her disasters in Iraq, Libya and Syria, or her failures on the economy, of which it's been disastrous, Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment, temperament and moral character to lead this country. She does. You know it. Everybody knows it.Everybody knows it.Everybody knows it. In the words of a Secret Service agent posted outside her office, she simply lacks the integrity and the temperament to serve in the office. "From the bottom of my soul, " he said, "I know this to be true."The policies of Hillary Clinton have produced death, destruction overseas. It's been disastrous. No matter where you look, everything she's touched has been a disaster and produced only failing schools, rising crime, job loss, shrinking incomes, and tragic poverty at home.You want four more years of it?I had a feeling you might say that.It's so sad. To see what's going on in our country is so sad. One in five American households do not have a single member in the labor force. Another 14 million people have left the labor force since 2009. And the national debt has doubled to nearly $20 trillion during the Obama years.I'm running to reverse these policies and to create a future of prosperity for all Americans -- all Americans.That includes, you'll be happy to hear this, our family farms right here in Iowa -- family farms.The farmers are being left out in the cold. Family farms are the backbone of this country. We are going to end the EPA intrusion into your family homes and your family farms.We are going to protect the renewable fuel standard, corn-based ethanol; eliminate job-killing regulations like the Waters of the U.S. rule; and provide desperately needed tax relief.Our plan lowers the tax rate on family farms, down to 15 percent from 35 percent. And you watch your farms grow. You watch businesses all over the country grow. You watch jobs come back. It will be a beautiful thing.And remember this, the double taxation of family farms at death. You want to leave your farms to your children? It's a disaster because it doesn't happen. So helping to ensure that the family farm, we have to make and we have to continue the tradition in Iowa. We want it to continue to thrive with your family.And you'll be looking down your family and you'll be proud. OK? So we're going to take care of that.My economic agenda can be summed up in three words: jobs, jobs, jobs.That means we're going to negotiate trade deals to protect our farmers, help them export their goods, and make money doing it. Because the way it is now, it's impossible, and grow family farming in America. We're going to grow the farms.My first day in office, I'm also going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last 10 years.All needless, job-killing regulations will be canceled.Millions and millions of new jobs will come pouring into our country.We're going to lift the restrictions on American energy, which means lower electricity prices for our farmers and a half a million jobs a year at least, probably a number much higher than that.And that will just be the beginning.Also, on my first day, I'm going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare.This will instantly save another 2 million jobs at least, probably more than that.By the way, remember Jonathan Gruber? Anybody remember that name?People forgot, a long time ago but some people remember, I see that.Jonathan Gruber was the architect of Obamacare. And he said -- remember they got him I guess on a cell phone or somehow, but they got him. He said the lack of transparency was essential to passing the legislation and then he talked about, like, and I quote, "the stupidity of the American voter having to do with Obamacare " -- "their stupidity, " an exact quote, "the stupidity of the American voter."Now, this is what we get. This is the hateful attitude of insiders like Mr. Gruber and Hillary Clinton. And the voters have had enough of this.On November 8th, we're taking back our country, November 8th.Another major reform is going to be school choice. And by the way, we're getting rid of Common Core. We're bringing it local.Bringing it local.Totally getting rid of Common Core. Common Core is a disaster. All you have to do is look at the ranking of schools and see that we pay the most per pupil. Not even close. And we're down on the bottom of the list so can't do that.Gonna be a lot of changes, really good changes. I've outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America the freedom to choose the public, private, magnet, religious school of his or her choice.This will help lift millions of poor African-American and Hispanic children out of poverty.The poverty is beyond belief. You don't think of it with this country. The poverty is beyond belief.It's time to break up the failed Democratic control over our inner cities and provide real hope and opportunity to every single community in this nation. We have to bring everybody with us, everybody.Our policies on taxes, trade, regulations and education will grow incomes, boost jobs, and reduce poverty for African-American and Hispanic communities. We have to do it. We have to being these communities into a great system and we have to bring these communities back. We have to do it.We need a new civil rights agenda for our time, one that promises safe neighborhoods, great education and a secured job. Nearly four in 10 African-American children live in poverty, including 45 percent of African-American children under that age of 6. 45 percent.Over 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1st of this year, 3,000 people. There's a shooting, on average, every two hours.To those suffering and hurting I say, "What do you have to lose? I'll fix it. Vote for Donald Trump. I mean that. What do you have to lose?""It can't get any worse."And I say this to -- I say this to the African-American community: It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse.Forty percent poverty, 58 percent can't get jobs, youth. It can't get any worse. I'll fix it, remember that.And Hillary just wants your vote and then she'll say, "See you in four years." OK? Bye-bye. And you see what's happened with our inner cities, where you can't walk down the street without being shot.And you see the crime and all of the problems, what do you have to lose? I will fix it, believe me.I'll bring back millions of jobs, higher wages and great schools. I will make your communities safe.Safety also means protecting our people from radical Islamic terrorism, all right?I hate even saying this, but this just happened. New video has just been released showing ISIS -- absolute butchers -- murdering innocent people in what has been called a Syrian slaughterhouse. The victims were dragged, then hung from meat hooks and then their throats were slit.So we have no question, we've got to name the problem, which Hillary and, as you know, President Obama, they won't do. We've got to name the problem and we've got to solve the problem. We've got to solve the problem. This is an evil, sadistic, monstrous enemy and we must keep these killers out of our country.We know for a fact that ISIS is trying to infiltrate refugee flows -- no question about this -- and to recruit refugees after their entry into our country. My opponent wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees over and above...Then you've got to vote for Trump. It's very simple, very simple.That's a 550 percent increase over and above the Obama administration. Thousands and thousands, 550 percent higher. We have no idea who these people are, where they come from. We have no idea. We have no idea what we're getting into. We have no idea.According to the Senate subcommittee on immigration, her entire plan will bring in 620,000 refugees in a first term and cost $400 billion in lifetime benefits.Instead of providing free health care and jobs to refugees from around the world, we should rebuild our inner cities and help struggling Americans get jobs all over our country.And we all have a heart. We all have a heart. And so I support totally construction of safe zones in the region. But we don't want to pay. We owe $20 trillion -- $20 trillion. Nobody even knows what it means -- $20 trillion.So what we're going to do is we're going to get -- exactly -- we're going to get the Gulf states to pay for it. We'll lead it. We'll get them to pay for it. They've got plenty of money. They just have nobody to ask them: You've got to put up the money. Maybe tell them is a better statement.At the same time as we rebuild our military, we are going to get our allies to pay their fair share.Only five of the 28 member NATO countries meet their obligations to spend two percent of GDP on defense. I will convene a summit of our European and Asian allies to make sure everyone is sharing in the burden of security. We are paying tremendous amounts of money to secure other nations, to protect and defend other nations.We are going to be made whole. We have no choice. This isn't 30 years ago. This isn't 40 years ago. And I believe properly asked, we'll be in a very good position and they will be very nice about it.Got to be properly asked.And we're going to then focus, and we have to focus, on radical Islamic terrorism. We're going to be focused.In all things, it's time to put Americans first. We are doing that.And we have to start taking care of each other, which we're not doing. Tonight, I'm going to roll out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable, quality childcare for their children. And my daughter Ivanka is going to be involved. She's the one...... she is the one that has been pushing for it. So, "Daddy, Daddy, we have to do this." And it's true. She's very smart and she's right.On policy after policy, we're going to provide opportunity, prosperity and security for all Americans, which we don't have now at all. I'm going to lower your taxes. I'm going to get rid of massive amounts of unnecessary regulations on business. And in your life, we're going to, as I said, repeal and replace Obamacare.I'm going to appoint justices of the United States Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.I'm going to rebuild our very depleted military and take care of our great vets for the first time.I'm going to save your Second Amendment which is under siege.And as you know, the NRA endorsed me very early, earlier than anybody else. And I'm very honored by that endorsement. But the NRA, you know what they're doing with our Second Amendment. They're fighting to save it. It's a very tough fight, another reason we need help and we have to have the help from the United States Supreme Court. And if the wrong justices get appointed, starting with the great Justice Scalia, who unexpectedly passed away, so now we have a tie court.If somebody takes his place, I think you can wave your Second Amendment, as you know it, you can wave it goodbye. You can wave it goodbye. So all of you that are big Second Amendment proponents and believers, you better get out there and you better vote or you're not gonna have much of a Second Amendment.November 8th. I'm going to stop illegal immigration and I'm going to stop drugs from pouring into our country. And yes we will build a wall and you're right, Mexico will pay for the wall. They will pay for the wall.We will build a wall, folks. We gotta stop the drugs from pouring in. We've gotta build the wall. The endorsement of all of the border patrol agents, first time they've ever done that. They're endorsing a presidential candidate.They said Mr. Trump, the wall is so necessary. It's a tool, for them. Another tool but one of the most important ones. But they said to me the wall is so important. And when I look at the drugs that pour in, pour in, they're poisoning our youth.You look at New Hampshire, you look at Pennsylvania, you look at Ohio, you look at all the states. One of the biggest things and in some cases their single, biggest problem is the drug inflow -- heroin.We're gonna stop the drugs from poisoning our youth and plenty of other people. We will build a wall.And I'm going to -- so importantly -- renegotiate your horrible trade deals, especially NAFTA which is maybe the single, worst trade deal ever made by any country anywhere in the world. It's just a one-way street, right now, it's a one-way street for jobs being ripped out of our country. Leaving the United States going to Mexico and other -- it's a one-way street. We're gonna have a nice, double-lane highway but much of the stuff is gonna be coming in the opposite direction at least for a long while until we can get ourselves even.But remember this, Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. So Bill Clinton signed the worst trade deal in the history of the world, folks. I mean its not like -- its in the history of the world.There's never been a worse or a dumber deal for trade including TPP which is a disaster -- but TPP I don't believe will be as bad as NAFTA. And as you know, Hillary Clinton totally wants to approve TPP.She said it's the gold standard, then she heard of speech of mine and she said wow, I better say I'm gonna reject it. But we all know that if she wants, she would sign TPP -- as you know that, you know it -- she'll sign the TPP. And if she signs it, it will be catastrophic for not only Iowa, for our country. So we can't let that happen, we can't let that happen.We -- in negotiating deals -- are going to do something very, very simple. We're going to put America -- but we're going to put the American worker first, very simple. It's very simple. It's a very simple thing.We don't think in terms of this country -- it's almost like I was thinking about it over the last couple of weeks, in particular. It's almost like they want these other countries to do so well, I'm saying we are -- because nobody can make deals that badly. But when you think about it, the reason they are bad is because of the donors, the special interests. In many cases, they own these countries that are leaving the country and ripping us and we're gonna stop it.And it's so easy to stop the globalists. It's so easy to stop. And we're going to stop it. And I'll tell you another thing, Apple and our other major companies, will start making their iPhones, their computers and other products in the United States, not in China, and not all over the world.Because we don't make things here like we used to anymore. We're going to start making things in our country. We're going to start having the jobs, be jobs that are good for our country.We're going to rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our highways, our airports, our schools and our hospitals. American cars will travel the roads, American airplanes will soar the skies, and American ships will patrol the seas. We don't make ships. American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds. And American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined from American sources will power our great nation.American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American metal into the spine of this country, American metal and American steel. I will fight for every neglected part of the nation. And I will fight to bring us all together as one American people, which we're not. We are so badly divided. Imagine what our country could accomplish, if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag, one American flag.It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new inclusive and prosperous -- and I mean truly prosperous -- American future. We could be better than we ever were, we can. We can better, we can be greater than we ever were. I know the people, I've traveled, I've seen thousand, I've seen millions of people, incredible people. We can be greater than ever before. Jobs will return, incomes will rise, and new factories will come rushing back to our shores.Once more, we will have a government, of, by and for the people.We will make American prosperous again. We will make America safe again. We will make America great again.Thank you. God bless you everybody. Thank you very much. Thank you. November 8th. Thank you, everybody.Thank you very much. I have really good news for you. I just heard that the press is stuck on their airplane -- they can't get here.I love it. So they're trying to get here now. They're going to be about 30 minutes late. They called us and said could you wait, I said absolutely not; let's get going, right. Let's get going, New Hampshire.And just so you understand, New Hampshire has a special place in my heart because this is where I won my first primary, right.And we are going to stop the heroin and we are going to stop all of the problems that you have because you have them and we're going to stop them, OK?You're always going to have them, and I mean this, you're always going to have a very special place in my heart. So, new polls have just come out.And we're leading in many of the battleground states, and we're leading all over the country. The L.A. Times has us six points up nationwide.On November 8th, New Hampshire can be the state that pushes us over the top.We're going to win New Hampshire and we're going to win back the White House, and we're going to make America great again, remember that, remember that.It's going to be a victory for the people, and especially those people who haven't had hope in a long time. That's a lot of people, believe me, that's a lot of great people. That means cities like Flint, Michigan -- I was there yesterday. In 1970, Flint had over 80,000 residents working at the General Motors plant, 80,000. Today it's less than 8,000 people and heading south, believe me.Forty percent of the city lives in poverty and now Ford, think of it, Ford, you read about it today. Ford has just announced they're moving all small car productions, small car, the little ones, you know, but they're pretty big. They're probably moving all production, they just don't want to say it, eventually -- I was right, I was right. I've been saying this was going to happen for years, to Michigan, to Ohio, to every place that makes cars and it's getting worse and worse.Well they're moving to Mexico on top of all the other car production that they've moved there and that other companies have moved there. This is -- we are creating the car capital of the world in Mexico, believe me folks. And I'm going to make sure that ends if I'm elected. It's going to end, end.So I went to Flint yesterday, to address the water crisis. It's a failure at every single level of government. It's tragic, and it's heartbreaking, and should never happen in the United States of America, ever. It used to be, cars were made in Flint and you couldn't drink the water in Mexico. Now the cars are made in Mexico and you can't drink the water in Flint. That's what's happening to our country, see that's what's happening to our country.This is what happens when we build up other countries instead of our own, we lose control. It's time to take care of our people and our workers.I'm campaigning in every community, and if you think this is easy, it's not. I've been all over the place. Wall Street, you know if you would've looked today, all over, including Waldorf Astoria today, we made a big speech on the economy, etc. and I go from there to another place to here. And I love doing it because what we're doing is a movement. What we're doing, you're going to be so proud of your country very, soon so just remember, so proud.And it is a movement and it's a movement that everybody is talking about, everybody is talking about it. I'm running to be the President of all Americans. Our support comes from all regions and backgrounds and all walks of life. You are the cops and soldiers, the carpenters and welders, the accountants and lawyers, young and old, rich and poor, black, white, Latino, but above all, we're all Americans, all of us together, all are Americans.While Hillary Clinton...... slanders you as the deplorable and irredeemable -- that means you can't ever get better, she doesn't understand you. I call you hard-working American patriots who love your family and love your country.It's the same attitude of arrogance and entitlement that explains why she has never taken accountability for the disasters she created all over the world, in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Iran, all over. It's the same reason why she won't take responsibility for her central role in unleashing ISIS -- that's what happened, bad decisions.She has bad judgment. Bernie Sanders told us that. Obviously, Bernie, you know a rigged system with the superdelegates and Bernie is right now home watching us together.But in all fairness Bernie Sanders said she suffers from bad judgment, he's right. Her policies have created disaster overseas and poverty at home, so many places.I am running to reverse these failures and to create a new American future, and there will be. And that future begins with prosperity at home. My economic agenda can be summed up in three words: jobs, jobs, jobs.Our jobs have been taken away from us -- they've gone to Mexico and they've gone all over the world but they've been taken away by incompetent politicians that don't know what's happening, or politicians that do know what's happening, but they're being bossed by special interests, they have donors, you know what's happening.My economic plan rejects the cynicism that says our labor force will keep shrinking, that our jobs will keep leaving, and that our economy can never grow as it did once before, and there's no reason why it shouldn't be able to grow even better. Everything that is broken today can be fixed. And every failure can be turned into a great, great success, it's going to happen.And by the way, I just see offstage a very special person. Has anyone ever heard of Eric Trump?Eric, come up Eric, my son Eric Trump. He is working, and Ivanka and Don and Tiffany, all of them, they are working.Thank you, Eric. He has been working hard. His sister too, and his brother Don and Tiffany made a great speech, and Melania made a great speech -- everybody, they're working so hard. And boy the press likes to hit them, right, boy the press likes to hit them. And they're such good kids but they can take it -- Eric, can you take it? I think so right. They're good kids.It's time to stop fighting over the smallest words and start dreaming about the great things we can achieve together as a country. Jobs can stop leaving our country and start pouring in. We're going to take them in, no longer a one-way highway into oblivion.Failing schools can become flourishing schools. Crumbling roads and bridges can become gleaming new infrastructure. Inner-cities can experience a flood of new jobs and investment. And rising crime can give way to safe and prosperous communities. All of these things and so much more are possible. We have such potential in this country.But to accomplish them we must replace the present policy of globalism, which has moved so many jobs and so much wealth out of our country and replace it with a new policy of Americanism, that's what it is, Americanism.I am not running to be the President of the world.I am running to be the President of the United States of America.Thank you. And I am spending a lot of my money doing this I want to tell you. These other people, it's all donations, let the money pour in, we're spending a lot. You better make sure I win on November 8th because I'm going to have wasted a hell of a lot of time, energy and money.You know when they tell me, Mr. Trump it doesn't matter what you've accomplished. First of all, I've accomplished nothing, you've accomplished, I'm the messenger. But what you've accomplished is so incredible, I say unless we win we've accomplished nothing, just remember. We have to win on November 8th, we have to get there, get everybody, New Hampshire, gotta vote. It's time to replace our failed political system with a new American system. If we lower our taxes, which we're going to do big leagueig league, remove destructive regulations and we will be chopping, unleash the vast treasure of American energy and negotiate trade deals that put America First, then there is no limit to the number of jobs we can create and the amount of prosperity we can unleash. America will truly be the greatest place in the world to invest, to hire, to grow and to create new jobs, new technologies and entire new industries, America, America.Made in America, remember? He remembers. Some of my older folks here right. We know, made in America, you remember? You don't see that very often and you're seeing it less and less, we're gonna bring it back, made in America.My first day in office I'm going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last eight years.All the needless job killing regulations will be canceled. Millions of new jobs will come pouring in. We're going to lift the restrictions on American energy which means lower electricity prices and half a million new jobs a year, big stuff. And that's just the beginning.Also on my first day, I am going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare.It's a disaster. This will instantly save another two million jobs. I'm also going to completely reform our trade deals. We are going to re-negotiate the worst trade deal ever made in the history -- not of our country -- in the history of the world, NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, a disaster.We're going to stand up to China and keep America out of TPP, that's another disaster. We don't need another massive, multinational deal that ties us up and binds us down and is so complicated that nobody in our country understands it. Other countries, they know every word. They know every sentence, every paragraph. Our people, they don't even read deals. They sign whatever is put in front of them. Just take a look at what happened with Obamacare. Practically nobody in Congress read it and what a mess we have.New Hampshire has lost nearly one in three -- think of it -- one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and one in four since China joined the World Trade Organization, both Hillary Clinton backed disasters, bad judgment, remember, bad judgment. And I'm going to appoint the best and toughest trade negotiators and we have the best in the world. We have the greatest business people and the greatest negotiators in the world. We don't use them, we use political hacks.We're going to stand up and defend our American workers.Any deal that doesn't increase jobs and wages in America I will oppose and I mean seriously oppose, not politician oppose. We are going to turn our bad trade deals into great ones.Another major reform is going to be school choice. I've outlined. -- and by the way we are going to terminate common core and bring education local.I've outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America the freedom to choose the private, public, magnet or religious school of his/her choice.This will help lift millions of poor African American and Hispanic children out of poverty. The poverty in our country is unbelievable.It's time to break up the failed democratic control over our inner-cities and provide real hope and opportunity to every single community in this nation. Our policies on taxes, trade, regulations and educations will grow. Incomes will boost and go right through the roof. We have to increase people's incomes -- do you know that many people in this room made more money 18 years ago in real wages, think of it, than they do now?They're working harder now, they're older, and many people because of Obamacare and for other reasons, are holding two jobs. So you're getting older, you're working harder and you're making less, I don't think that sounds great.The only good thing is that I'm also working a hell of a lot harder than I've ever worked before also, so I don't feel so sorry for you, working hard.But we're enjoying it because we see the fruits of our labor, we see what's happening and in 52 days you're going to have a lot of happy people in this state and in this country, I'll tell you.So we want to reduce poverty for our African American and Hispanic communities, have to. Since President Obama came into office another two million Hispanic Americans have fallen into poverty. This is unacceptable. To the Hispanic community I say we are going to protect your jobs. We are going to build up your schools and we are going to deliver safety and opportunity for your children.Safety also means protecting our people from radical Islamic terrorism.My opponent wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees.You saw what happened yesterday. Hundreds of thousands of people are being approved to pour into the country. We have no idea who they are. What a mistake, the great Trojan horse. Two hundred years from now they'll be saying boy that was a bad, bad couple of years.You know folks we all have a big heart and we want to build safe havens. We owe $20 trillion very soon, the debt has doubled under Obama but we owe $20 trillion. The gulf states have a lot of money. We're going to get them to put up the money and we'll build it and they have to put up the money. We'll build safe havens, we'll take care of people but we cannot let them come into our country, we just can't, not now.According to the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, her entire plan will bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term and cost our country $400 billion. What are we doing? What are we doing? Instead of providing free health care and jobs to refugees from around the world, we should rebuild our inner-cities and help struggling Americans and we should work with Hispanics, we should work with African American citizens and help our inner-cities. And we should take care of our great veterans who are not being treated properly.They have their priorities so very wrong. I support the construction of safe zones in the region and we will get the gulf states, we're going to get them to pay for it. The gulf states wouldn't be there for very long if it wasn't for us. At the same time -- that's right, keep the oil and remember my statement, you shouldn't go in but if you go in, when you go out, keep the oil. We wouldn't do a thing like that, it's not politically correct right?At the same time, we will rebuild our military, which is so badly depleted with the greatest people on earth running it. We are going to get our allies to pay their fair share. You know we defend many countries and we're getting socked on that one too, we get socked on everything. Only five of the 28 member NATO countries -- you remember I've been talking about this, they say I don't like NATO, I like NATO. But we are five out of the 28 countries that are paying their obligation to spend 2% of GDP on defense. So don't you think they're supposed to be paying maybe?I will convene a summit of our European and Asian allies to make sure that everyone is sharing the security burden and that we are properly focused on protecting our country, and other countries frankly, from radical Islamic terrorism, a word and a phrase that President Obama and Hillary Clinton just refuse to use. And unless you're going to use it and unless you're going to say it, you're never ever going to be able to do anything about it, just remember that.In all things, it's time to put Americans first and time to start taking care of each other. We have to take care of each other.And is there any place that's better to be than a Trump rally in New Hampshire, here we are.No place. There is no place better. And you know what else? There is no place safer.Earlier this week I rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable quality childcare for their children.My daughter Ivanka was so helpful. She is so dedicated to that and she has been talking about that long before June 16th of last year when I decided that we have to do this.On policy after policy, we are going to provide opportunity, prosperity and security for all Americans. I am going to lower your taxes beyond any number you thought possible.And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes very, very substantially.She is. Very, very substantially.I am going to get rid of massive amounts of unnecessary regulations on business and in your life, it's killing your businesses. I am going to repeal and replace Obamacare. I am going to appoint justices of the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.I am going to rebuild our depleted military and we're going to take care of our vets -- we have plenty of them here tonight. I am going to safe your Second Amendment which is under siegeAnd the NRA gave us the earliest endorsement they've ever given. So I want to thank the NRA -- these are great people, these are great people. You've got to get out and if you want to save your Second Amendment, believe me, you have to get out and vote.I am going to stop illegal immigration and drugs coming into our country and yes we will build the wall. That's right,We will. We will build the wall and Mexico will pay for the wall, believe me, they will -- they will.We have a trade deficit that's so massive with Mexico that the wall is a peanut compared to what we're losing. They will pay for the wall, they just don't know it yetBut believe me they're going to pay for it. And they'll be happy to do it. It just has to be explained properly.I am going to so importantly re-negotiate your disastrous trade deals, especially NAFTA. Now NAFTA is turning out to be the worst but we're going to re-negotiate and we will make great trade deals and we'll put our American workers first. But here's the thing, if for some reason we can't re-negotiate NAFTA, they could say no, unlikely, but they could say no, we will terminate NAFTA and we'll have new trade deals that will be phenomenal for the United States of America, OK, right.We're not playing games. And Apple and our other major companies will start making their iPhones, and their computers, and other products inside the United States not in China and all over the world except here, OK? Because that's what's happening right now big leagueig league. We don't make our products anymore in the United States but we will again like never before, mark my words.We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads, American planes will soar the skies, and American ships will patrol beautifully the sea.American steel will send new skyscrapers high into the clouds, American hands will rebuild this nation, and American energy mined from American sources will power our nation.And believe me when I say this, American workers, right, American workers will be hired to do the job, American workers.We will put new American steel into the spine of this country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation and I will fight to bring us together as one American people. Imagine -- just imagine -- what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one flag, right -- saluting -- saluting one flag, right.It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new inclusive and truly prosperous American future. Jobs will return, incomes will rise and new factories will come back, and they will come back rushing into our shores. It will be a beautiful sight to behold. Once more we will have a government of, by, and for the people.We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you very much everybody. November 8th go out and vote.God bless you, God bless you. Thank you.Welcome to all of you deplorables.Wow. I love that. I love that. Look at this. Look what that says. Hold up that sign for the cameras. Wow.That's so beautiful. Thank you. Great. Thank you. That is so nice.And we are doing well in every way. The polls have been incredible. But we're doing great.It's great to be in my second home, Florida.And in the city of Miami where I have so many wonderful friends and projects and employees. We have an amazing group. And all of you know Trump National Doral and we'll go there. Let's go and have some fun.We have tremendous developments in Miami on the water and Doral in particular has been a tremendous, tremendous thing. So I really appreciate it. I love this city. I love the whole state.So, and I have a lot of employees. And I'm paying them a lot of money.And by the way, a lot of African-American employees, a lot of Hispanic employees.A lot. And they're very happy. They like Donald Trump.So new polls have just come in. And we're leading in many of the battleground states all over the country.Including being four points up in a certain state known as Florida.And the Los Angeles Times has us six points up nationwide. Good poll. If it weren't, I wouldn't be telling you about it, I promise.But come November 8, we're going to win Florida. And we're going to win the White House. And we're going to make America great again.It's going to be a victory for the people. It's going to be a victory for the workers, the families, the veterans. The veterans. We love our veterans.And every citizen of this country.It's going to be a victory for those who haven't had reason to hope for a very long time. I'm campaigning in every community and every part of this country for every last vote.I'm running to be a president for all Americans. I just had the most amazing afternoon in Little Haiti.Good place. Unbelievable people. And I'm going to be campaigning hard for their votes. And they are incredible people. Our support comes from all regions, all backgrounds and all walks of life, all. All of them.And by the way, at Little Haiti they presented me with something that I figured I'd put on. Is that OK to put it on?They gave me that and I love it. I think it's great.Your cops and soldiers -- thank you. I love you too.Carpenters and welders, accountants and lawyers, young and old, rich and poor, Black, white and Hispanic. But above all, we are together and we are Americans.We got to pull our country together.Just today I was honored to get the endorsement of recipients of the Medal of Honor, brave people. And many, many of our most amazing military leaders, generals, admirals, amazing people, real fighters. They really know what they're doing. We now have the endorsements of more than 160 top generals and admirals.I didn't know we had that many. Well, we love them.We also have the support of 16,500 Border Patrol officers.The first time in the history of the Border Patrol that they've endorsed any presidential candidate. As well as law enforcement officers, police, all across the country.In fact, I'm very excited to announce tonight that we just received a few minutes ago an endorsement of the largest police union in the country, the Fraternal Order of Police. Number one by far.Pretty good. Pretty good.And we have the support of millions of patriotic moms and dads who go to work every day and make our country run.While my opponent slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable...Boy that second word is tough. You don't hear that as much. But that means you're never going to come back, folks. And I know you're going to come back. We're going to come back so strong. We're going to be so strong. Stronger than ever before.Irredeemable. They don't talk about that one. But that was, to me, pretty bad.I call you hardworking American patriots who love your family and really, really, really love your country. Love your country.Clinton's entire campaign rests on using a single tactic, and it's not working very well. She spent hundreds of millions of dollars on phony campaign ads. And we're actually I think probably leading, based on everything we're seeing. And we've spent practically nothing. I'm proud of that.And you know what?We're doing very well.You know in the old days if you spent less and you had far fewer people and you were leading you got credit. Today they say well, she's spending much more money. Yes, but she's doing poorly, very poorly.But what they do is they smear opponents. And you look at her history. And they question policies.And they talk all the time about racist, racist. It's the only word they know. They used it on Romney. They used it on everybody. They use it. When they're in trouble, they always pull out the racist word. And they are in very big trouble, I have to tell you.And for the most part we haven't even started spending our money yet. And we have raised a lot of money. And I'm putting in my money. And I put in a hell of a lot of money. In fact...... if things don't work out, even though a lot of people are saying this was one of the great political phenomenas they've ever seen. They've never seen -- they call it a phenomena.I will tell you. If it doesn't work out, it will be a tremendous waste of time, energy and money. And she's angry for even suggesting it.But we're going to -- hey look, November 8 you go and vote. We're winning. I'll tell you what. If you vote, we're winning.There's no way they can beat us.There's no way she can beat us because her people have no enthusiasm whatsoever. They're not going to turn out. They don't have the enthusiasm. Who could possibly have enthusiasm? What are you getting?You turn out winning big league. And I think -- and they're all saying the Trump people are going to turn out. We have a movement like they have never, ever seen in this country.But the racist word, it's the oldest play in the Democratic playbook, and Americans have had enough of it, OK. We get it. We get it.I'll tell you what, I just -- I told you I just left Little Haiti. The love is unbelievable. It's unbelievable.There's no racist. There's no nothing. It's love.They want solutions. They want better lives, not more petty attacks from failed and totally discredited politicians like Crooked Hillary Clinton.They want their immigration laws enforced and their border secured.Let's win on November 8, OK? That'll be...They're patriotic Americans of all background who want their jobs and their families protected. They want protection.People who warn about radical Islamic terrorism are not Islamophobes. Everyone's an Islamophobe. You mention something you're an Islamophobe. You know they come up with words. Hey, I went to Ivy League school. I did very well. They have so many new words. Islamophobe.We have a president, and frankly Hillary, who don't use the words radical Islamic terrorism. And if you don't know what you're fighting, you're not going to fight it very well. And we've proven that.We have decent American citizens who want to uphold our tolerant values and keep our country safe. We want to keep our country safe.People who support the police, who want crime reduced and ended, and who are not prejudiced. They're concerned and loving citizens whose hearts break every time an innocent child is killed violently on the streets, which is happening all over our country.Yet while Hillary Clinton lives behind gates and walls and guards, and raises millions from -- you know look what she's doing with these hedge funds. Raising millions and millions. I know so many of these people. Give me a break.The hedge fund and the Wall Street donors she slanders and smears with her statements last week. Working people who just want a fraction of the security enjoyed by our politicians and certainly enjoyed by her.Now you know she's very much against the Second Amendment. She wants to destroy your Second Amendment.Guns, guns, guns, right. I think what we should do is she goes around with armed bodyguards like you have never seen before. I think that her bodyguards should drop all weapons. They should disarm right?Right? I think they should disarm immediately. What do you think? Yes? Yes.Take their guns away. She doesn't want guns. Take their -- let's see what happens to her. Take their guns away. OK? It'll be very dangerous.Her comments displayed the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal law as secretary of State, hide and delete her emails, destroy her iPhones with a hammer. With a hammer. Thirteen of them.Put classified information in the reach of our enemies. Lie to Congress. And sell government favors and access through her foundation.It's the same attitude of arrogance and entitlement that explains why she has never taken accountability for the disaster she created in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Iran and all over the world. Everything she touched, it just didn't work out. Certainly it didn't work out for our country.It's the same reason why she won't take responsibility for her central role in unleashing ISIS all over the world.Her policies have created disaster overseas and poverty at home. We see it. Look, we see it. I drove here. We see it. We see it.I'm running to reverse these failures. And they are incredible failures. And create a new American future.And that future begins with prosperity at home.My economic agenda can be summed up in three words. And you're going to like these three words. Jobs, jobs, jobs.One of my highest priorities is to bring jobs into our inner cities. African-American communities have suffered horribly as a result of failed Democratic leadership.Democrats have run these inner cities for a half a century, for 60 years, 75 years, even in some cases 100 years straight. Unabated. Unbroken. Over 100 years.They control the mayor's offices, the school boards, the city councils and the seats in Congress. And all they have delivered is more poverty, more crime and more failing schools.Sixty-five percent of African-American children under the age of six now live in poverty. More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago this year. This year. Think of it, since Jan. 1.Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not working. Can't get a job.These are the results of the policies embraced by Hillary Clinton. And everyone knows that if she's elected the inner cities will get nothing but more pain and suffering and crime and heartache.Amazing people. Amazing country. We have an amazing country.And honestly you see the crime statistics. Your African- American. You have the inner city problems that have been going on forever. Forever.You have problems like nobody has. And you look at crime. You look at schools. You look at no jobs. Look at the worse education. Look how dangerous. You can't walk down the street. You get shot or your child gets shot.And I've been saying it. And I'll say it openly and some people like it and some people don't like it. And I don't really care.What do you have to lose? I will fix it. I'm going to fix it. We're going to fix our inner cities. We're going to make them safe. We're going to bring jobs back.So to the African-American people within the community, what do you have to lose? It can't get -- honestly, it can't get -- that's so nice. Thank you. It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse. It can't get any worse.Thank you.So nice. Thank you. Thank you very much.It can't get any worse, the crime, the jobs. No jobs. No education. Worse education.More unsafe -- you go to Afghanistan, right. We hear Afghanistan. I mean we have cities that are far more dangerous than Afghanistan.Inner cities. African-American people within that community and outside of that community are going to be voting for Donald Trump in record numbers.You watch.We're going to fix it.Hillary Clinton has been in Washington for 30 years. Her disastrous record speaks for itself.And I have to tell you. When she ran for the United States Senate in New York, we have Upstate New York which is a total disaster, economic disaster. She said she's going to bring back jobs, jobs, jobs.She -- anyway, she gets elected. We lost our jobs. It got worse. She didn't do anything. She didn't do anything. She went home. She went to sleep, OK. She didn't do anything. She didn't do anything. It got worse. Far worse.Now it's a total catastrophe. Just remember that. When she tells you about jobs, when she tells you she's going to fix trade deals, she wouldn't know where to begin. She wouldn't know where to begin. And besides that, to do that kind of thing, to negotiate great trade deals, to re-enhance our -- I mean look.Our military is so depleted. We have the greatest people on earth. They're using equipment that's old. They're flying planes that are old.You see what's happening. It's a depleted military. We have to have a strong military. We have to take care of our vets.We have to take care of our vets.But to do these things you need a lot of energy. And she does not have the energy. And in my opinion she is totally unfit to be the president of the United States.The only people that she will deliver for, frankly, are her donors and her special interests.I'm going to deliver for you. Believe me. The American people. We're going to deliver. You're going to be happy.And those inner cities are going to see progress like they have probably, not probably. Like they have never seen. You watch. Like they have never seen.Thank you.If we lower our taxes and we're getting a massive tax reduction -- and by the way, Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes substantially.If we remove destructive regulations, unleash the vast treasure of American energy. We have so much energy. It's being destroyed, our economic worth. And negotiate trade deals that put America First. Then there is no limit to the number of jobs we can create and the amount of prosperity we can unleash.There is no limit. Pay off our debt. Pay down our debt. Reduce taxes. Get rid of regulations.My first day in office I'm going to order a review of every single regulation issued over the last 10 years.All needless, job-killing regulations will be immediately canceled. Millions of new jobs will come pouring in. And we're going to lift the restrictions on American energy which means at least another half a million jobs each year. They are being destroyed.And we're unable to compete with other nations. Very simple. And that's just the beginning.Also on my first day I'm going to ask Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare...It has turned out to be a disaster.This alone will instantly save another two million jobs. And if you look at your premiums, it's through the roof.And by the way, on November 1, just before the election on November 8, new numbers are coming out which will show 40, 50, 60 percent increases. They want to delay it until after the election because it's election -- it's a disaster. It's a disaster.And your deductibles are so high that unless you lead a really long, slow, vicious death, you're never going to be able to use, OK. Do you see the deductibles? You're never going to be able to use it.I'm also going to completely reform our trade deals. We're going to renegotiate NAFTA.Probably the worst trade deal ever agreed to, signed in the history of the world, not in the United States. It's destroyed our manufacturing in our country. It's destroyed.And by the way, guess who signed it? Bill Clinton.You look at all of the places, Florida included. But you look at Upstate New York, you look at Ohio, you look at Pennsylvania. You look at all of these different places have been destroyed. Absolutely destroyed.You look at New England. Look what happened to New England. They've been destroyed by companies moving out, going into Mexico, firing everybody. Unemployment through the roof.We're going to stand up to China, and keep America out of the Transpacific Partnership, another catastrophe.TPP will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing can be as bad as NAFTA. Transpacific Partnership will be almost as bad as NAFTA.It'll take your jobs, Ohio. Remember, it's going to take your jobs, Ohio. I tell you that. Michigan. So many places.TPP is a disaster. We don't need another massive multinational deal, by the way, that nobody on our side even reads, that ties us up and binds us down and doesn't even discuss monetary manipulation and devaluation, which is how China and all these countries are beating us so badly. Not even discussed.And they had provisions in the agreement, and they would take it out because certain politicians didn't want to have them in there. I wonder why.Another major reform is going to be school choice.And we're going to terminate Common Core. And we're bringing our education local.I've outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America the freedom to choose the private, public, magnet or religious school of his or her choice.This will help lift millions of poor African-American and Hispanic children out of poverty, something we are going to do.Since President Obama came into office another two million Hispanic-Americans have fallen into poverty. It's catastrophic. And it's totally unacceptable.To the Hispanic community I say we are going to protect your jobs. We're going to build up your schools. And we're going to deliver safety and opportunity for your children.You have no safety. You have little opportunity.This week I also rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable quality child care for their children. Ivanka Trump, very much for child care. She's been talking about that to me for two years, long before I even decided to go through this journey.And it's not easy, I want to tell you. We speak in rooms like this. This is about 100 degrees right now. That's considered a cool auditorium.And the reason is we have such big crowds like this one. Look at that. Every single corner.Unbelievable.You ever see her 18-minute speech? Bomb. Bomb. Bomb. See ya. See ya. I'm going home.No. We're doing it the right way. And frankly, when they spend hundreds of millions of dollars on advertising I don't have to because I do it the old fashioned way. I come into your neighborhood, right.It's a lot cheaper. It's a lot harder work, but it's a lot cheaper.Very true. Very, very true.On policy after policy we're going to provide opportunity, prosperity and security for all Americans. We're also going to stand with the Cuban people in their fight against Communist oppression.No, we're on the right side. Great people. They're great people.The president's one-sided deal for Cuba and with Cuba benefits only the Castro regime.People are very unhappy about it.You know what's interesting? When he landed the plane recently in China, right, they refused to give him a stairway out of Air Force One. Now that is a first in the history of Air Force One. So he used basically the mechanics stairs. That's the stairs they drop down to get the mechanics up to fix the light bulb, right.When he landed the plane in Saudi Arabia, which we protect. Without us they wouldn't be there for two months. He landed in Saudi Arabia. He wasn't greeted by the top officials.Now what would I have done in those two cases? Bomb. Take me back to Washington, Jim. Let's go.Right. Let's go.Let's go, Jim. Get going. Close those doors. We're going home.Now with Cuba, with Cuba we land in Cuba and there's no Castro to greet him. The big leaders weren't there to greet him.And I have a lot of Cuban friends. But you would have all done the same thing again. Jim, let's close those doors. We're going home. Right?Right?Let's go, captain. We're going home. We're going into Washington. Maybe we'll head into Miami actually. That's not a bad idea.Terrible. That's three. Three. Saudi Arabia, Cuba, China.Air Force One has never been treated so badly in its long and incredible history. Air Force One used to land and people would respect the people inside. And they'd come out and there'd be all sorts of hoopla. Not anymore. It's unbelievable. And these are countries that are benefited by us greatly.So we have to make great deals before we do anything with Cuba or anybody else, right. We're going to make great deals. You'll be happy. You're going to be happy, I tell you.How many people are from Cuba here? Come here. Tell me.Cuban. Cuban. Good. Do you agree with me? Do you agree?We'll do it. But we'll do it with great deals. And we'll do it with democracy. And we'll do it the way we have to do it. OK? We'll do it the right way.Where is Ms. Delgado? Does everybody know? What a great -- where is she? She is so amazing. A.J. Where is A.J. Wow, she's so -- she's become a tremendous star.Tell you one thing, when she's representing me I wouldn't do it anyway, but I can. Turn off the television. I'm well protected. Thank you. Great job. Thank you very much.Thank you, A.J.But all of the concessions that Barack Obama has granted the Castro regime were done through executive order, which means the next president can reverse them. And that I will do unless the Castro regime meets our demands. Not my demands, our demands. You know what the demands are.Those demands will include religious and political freedom for the Cuban people.And the freeing of political prisoners. The freeing of political prisoners.Right? Am I -- is that right?Oh boy. Oh boy. What energy in this room. What energy.A lot of energy.You'll be very happy, my Cuban friends. I have so many friends from Cuba. Incredible people.So let's also talk about a place called Venezuela.They -- now who's here from Venezuela? Or related in some -- not too many. Whoa. Whoa. What's going on? Not too many? Friend or foe? I think he's friend.I think he's friend.No, he's OK. He's OK. By the way, is there any place more fun to be than a Trump rally? You tell me.Right?Tell you. We have a lot of Venezuelans around Doral, the Doral section, right. And it's a beautiful, vibrant -- this is an amazing place.But they are really having trouble over in Venezuela. But Miami is filled with hardworking, incredible Venezuelan people.But it's been hurt very badly by Socialist Venezuela.And the next president of the United States must stand in solidarity with all people oppressed in our atmosphere. And we will stand with oppressed people. And there are many.The oppressed people of Venezuela, they are yearning to be free. They are yearning for help. The system is bad. But the people are great. Great.They are great people.Here in America I'll push to expand freedom for all of our citizens. I'm going to lower your taxes so substantially.We're getting rid of all of those regulations on business. So many small business owners here, I know five of them. One of them was small business now he's big business. I'm proud of him. He's right here. But we're going to get rid of those terrible, terrible regulations.He just said to me, and the thing that surprised me most, we're bringing business tax rates down from 35 percent to 15 percent. And yet...... it'll be the greatest cut, I believe, in the history of our country.But I will tell you what surprises me tremendously is that the people that have these cuts, they're more concerned with regulation than even a big tax decrease because regulations are choking and killing our businesses and stopping our businesses from hiring people, jobs.So I'm going to appoint justices of the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.I'm going to rebuild our depleted (military). We're going to take care of our -- the vets. Who's a vet? Who's a vet?Where are my vets? Where are they? There they -- OK. Now they're standing up. Now they -- I know we had a lot of vets here. Thank you, fellas. Thank you very much.We're going to take care of our vets.We're going to save your Second Amendment. Do you know if you look at some of the things, the catastrophes -- you look at Orlando. You look at San Bernardino. You look at so many different -- you look at Paris. The toughest gun laws in the world, they have it in Paris.These thugs, these animals walked in and they just go bomb, bomb, bomb. Nobody had guns on the other side. If there were guns on the other side, just a few of them, number one, probably if they knew, they wouldn't have attacked. And number two, even if they did attack, it would've been a whole different story. One hundred thirty people killed. People massively injured, still in the hospital. Their lives are just destroyed. And if they had protection, if they had guns on the other side, with the bullets flying the other direction, it would've been a whole different story.So we're going to protect your Second Amendment. And I'm going to stop illegal immigration and drugs from coming into our country.And yes, we will build a wall. We'll build a wall.We will build a wall.Who's going to pay for the wall?One hundred percent. One hundred percent.And we're going to be renegotiating NAFTA and our terrible trade deals. We're going to make great deals out of horrible deals. And if we can't renegotiate the deal because the other side is so, so happy with it, we're going to terminate the deal and we'll start all over again, folks.We'll have new deals. And they'll be much better deals. And they'll be two-way streets. The traffic, it'll be coming our way. It's a one-way street out of the United States for our jobs and our money. You know I always say we get the drugs they get the cash. That's the deal, folks. No good.They're building in Mexico right now, and Mexico's just one example, some of the greatest plants. A friend of mine builds plants. And he tells me all the time. I called him up the other day. I called him up six months ago, told me the same thing. Nothing changes.Ford. They just announced yesterday they're moving their Small Car Division, the whole thing, into Mexico.That's on top of spending billions and billions of dollars...And then you wonder why I'm winning in Michigan. Because I've been telling the people in Michigan.I've been telling the people in Ohio for five years that this is happening. And our politicians don't do anything about it. And Hillary Clinton will never do anything about it. She doesn't have the capability to do it.We will rebuild our roads and bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals. American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar in the sky. They'll soar.And American ships will patrol the seas.American steel will send new skyscrapers right here in Miami into the clouds. But it'll be American steel.American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined from American sources will power our energy.And we'll take care of our steel workers. And we'll take care of our miners who have been destroyed by this administration, destroyed.And Hillary Clinton has already said she's going to put the miners out of business. We're going to take care of our miners. They're amazing people. American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country.I will fight for every neglected part of this nation. And I will fight to bring us all together as one people.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one flag.It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future. We're not prosperous anymore. We owe $20 trillion. We have a president who in seven-and-a-half years has doubled the debt.Our country's in trouble. A lot of people don't know it, but our country's in trouble. And we're going to make sure that trouble never comes. Let me tell you.Jobs will return. Incomes will rise. And new factories will come rushing back to our shores. Once more we will have a government of, by and for the people.We will make America wealthy again.We will make America safe again.We will make America strong again.And we will make America great again.Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, Miami.Thank you, everybody. Wow! This is great! In a hangar, yeah, right? In a hangar. Boy, oh, boy. It's a movement like they haven't seen before.I must tell you that just before I got off the plane, a bomb went off in New York and nobody knows exactly what's going on. But, boy, we are living in a time, we've got to get very tough, folks. We've got to get very, very tough.It just happened, so we'll find out. But it's a terrible thing that's going on in our world and in our country. And we are going to get tough and smart and vigilant. And we're going to end it. We're going to end it. So we'll see what it is. We'll see what it is.But in any event, I am so thrilled to be in Colorado, a special place, a special, special place, a really special place.And a new poll from Emerson just came out and we're up four points in Colorado.And we haven't spent any money on advertising yet, that's even better. You know, in the old days, if you could be up and have a smaller crew and spend no money, you were considered a genius. Today, if you don't spend a lot of money, you don't have a big crew, they say, oh, he's not spending a lot of money. But we're going to spend a lot of money in Colorado because we're going to take Colorado, we don't want to take any chances, right? We don't want to take any chances.So Reuters has just projected a win for us in Florida. We're going to win in Florida.And we're up in Ohio. And we're up in Iowa, we're up eight points in Iowa, we're up four or five points in Ohio, and amazing people. You look at what's going on with our manufacturing being sucked out of our country. We're not going to be having that happen long, folks. It's not going to happen long, believe me.We're up in North Carolina. We're up in many, many polls nationwide. The Los Angeles Times has us up six points nationwide, so we're good, we're good.You know, they call this a movement. And all over they're talking about it as a movement. Bill O'Reilly said one of the great phenomenons he's ever seen. He actually said it's the greatest political phenomenon he's seen in his lifetime.But I'll tell you something, it doesn't mean anything if we don't win. We've got to win. We've got to win.It's going to be a victory for the people. It's going to be a victory for you, all the way to that corner over there. Boy, we have a lot of people here. This is a big hangar and it's full, big hangar, and I appreciate it.Starting in 2017, anything we dream of for our country will be achieved, it's going to be achieved. It's time to start thinking of dreaming big, we don't dream big anymore in this country, bigger than all of those petty politicians that don't have a clue, believe me.Our plan begins with economic prosperity, my economic agenda can be summed up in three very beautiful words. You know what they are? Jobs, jobs jobs!We're going to have a massive tax reduce, big, big tax reduction, for working and middle-class families. We're going to reduce, and this is so important, reduce job-killing regulations and raise the incomes way up high. We're going to keep our good jobs. We have bad jobs we're going to keep, but we are going to get our good jobs back. They've been sucked away.We're going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals. Now, that doesn't mean -- you know, these press, they are so dishonest.We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.And you see what's happening, you see what's happening. And we look at the numbers. Look at what's happening with your premiums. They're going through the roof, up 20, 30, 40, 50 percent. Your deductibles are so high you'll never get to use them unless you really, oh, I don't even like to say it. It's got to be a long, slow, tragic death and then maybe you'll get to use a little, tiny piece. But that's going to be the last thing you're worried about.We're going to appoint Supreme Court justices who will uphold the Constitution of the United States. So important.We're going to work with law enforcement, our polices, to stop the surge of violent crime.We're going to revitalize our crumbling infrastructure.We're going to provide school choice to every disadvantaged child in America, of which we have many.And we're going, by the way, to end Common Core. We're bringing our education local.We're going to end illegal immigration. And yes, we will build a wall.We're going to build a wall. And you know what? They don't know it yet, but they're starting to get the idea, and they're great people and they're very good leaders, much smarter than our leaders, believe me, but Mexico will be paying for that wall, OK? They will be paying for that wall. We know that.We're going to keep the terrorists out of our country and apply new screening standards, a hundred percent, to admit people that love our country and want to love our country and people that want to love our people.We're going to defeat ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism.We're going to rebuild our badly depleted military, the greatest people on earth. But we've got to build, we have to rebuild our military. It's depleted. Our fighters are 18 years old in some cases. They go out to replace parts, they go to the airplane graveyards to get parts because they don't make them anymore. They go to museums to take parts off planes. These are fighter jets that we have right now. You've seen it, it is terrible. This is not the United States of America, folks.And we're going to remember those three very famous words: peace through strength. That's what we're going to have.And hopefully we won't have to use our strength so much, but we need it, maybe more than ever before.In all things, it's going to be America First, America First. You don't hear that anymore.You don't hear that anymore. You go out and you see these trade deals and it looks like we're doing the deals for other countries.Correct, correct, correct. That is so correct.In this mission, we are going to campaign in every community in our country. This is our chance to replace a failed, corrupt and dishonest political establishment with a new government that answers to the citizens, not to the special interests.We can't keep listening to the same people who created all of these problems in the first place. By the way, Hillary Clinton -- we're not going to listen and we're not going to take it anymore. We're going to do what we know we have to do.That's why I'm proud -- and by the way, when you say that, let's just win on November 8th, OK?It's so simple. Get out, vote, bring everybody. If you're feeling horrible, just horrible, if you're sick, you're really sick, you can't get out of bed, I don't give a you-know-what. I don't even use that word anymore, because if I use that word they'll say he used foul language, it is terrible. So I won't even use that word that starts with a D, right? You know, not so bad. I don't even like using the H word, you know, the place that's down there. Because if I use that word, they'll say he used foul language. See? I've learned, it's been a process. I've learned.But that's why I'm so proud to have the endorsement of the people who actually on the ground, they're on the ground, they know what needs to be done, not the insiders from Washington, D.C. They know what has to be done, too, but they'll never do it because they're working for themselves. I see a mosquito. Right now I don't like mosquitoes too much, folks.Get out of here you mosquito. I never minded mosquitoes, now I'm not loving them, I must be honest.This week, I was honored to get the endorsement of 17 recipients of the Medal of Honor......and many, many of our incredible military leaders. We now have the endorsement of more than 160 top generals and admirals. That's a lot.We also have the support and endorsement of 16,500 Border Patrol agents, first time they've ever endorsed a presidential candidate.Earlier today, I had a chance to spend some time with the victims of illegal immigrant violence. And this is violence. These are great people of all races and all backgrounds. They're all united by one common fact: Their government failed them in its most basic duty.They just -- and I have to tell you, it was so sad and maybe some of you saw it today, it was on television. But we received the endorsement of the nation's largest police fraternal order. It's called the Fraternal Order of Police. And we talked about it this morning.If you would see these people who lost their daughters, their sons, their husbands, their wives to the most violent of people, the most violent people, you would say that when I first came out and I started talking about trade deals and I started talking about energy, but I started talking about illegal immigration, you would say, boy, oh, boy, was he right about that.And we're going to stop the crime. We're going to stop the drugs from pouring across our border and poisoning our youth. And you have the same problem right here. We're going to stop that problem. Not only our youth, by the way, many, many people are being poisoned by what's pouring across that border. So we're going to stop it and we're going to stop it cold.Last night in Fort Worth, Texas, a newly commissioned officer in training and his field officer were shot while responding to a possible suicide. Also last night in Philadelphia, a 19-year police veteran was shot eight times. The police commissioner said it was a miracle that she wasn't killed -- she. Also, another officer, who formerly served for 33 years in the Philadelphia police department, was shot numerous times.Our prayers are with all of the victims. We must stand with our police. We must.And I'm so greatly honored to have the support of our local law enforcement and all law enforcement. We have such incredible law enforcement support. Our men and women in military uniform, unbelievable support, and the support of firefighters, paramedics and so many other public servants. We have got support.I'll tell you what, folks. I'm looking and I'm seeing every place we go we have crowds like this, every place. We just left -- we were in Texas, we were in Oklahoma. Every place we go we're having crowds like this. There's something special going on. We're going to take back the White House, we're going to take back our country.Is there any place that's more fun to be -- and look at this, I mean, how beautiful is this -- than a Trump rally? No place safer, and there's no place safer, that I can tell you. A lot of love, there's a lot of love.I just want to tell you this, and I mean this from the bottom of my heart. It's November 8th, if we win, not me, we win, I'm the messenger, I'm doing a good job as the messenger, but we all know what has to be done. And we are going to do something special. And I promise you this: I will never, ever let you down. You're not going to be let down, not going to be let down.Our support comes from all regions, all backgrounds and all walks of life. The bricklayers and the home builders and the doctors and the dentists and the carpenters and the welders, young and old, rich and poor, black, white, Hispanic, but above all else we're Americans. And that's the support, we're America.So you've heard this word. And while my opponent, Hillary Clinton -- oi...My opponent slanders you as deplorable.And a word that hasn't been picked up to the same extent, "irredeemable." That means you can't be made better or whatever. That means you're always going to be deplorable, right? I don't think so. I don't think so.I call you hardworking American patriots who love your family and love your country and you want to see it be better.Hillary Clinton's comments, and they were angry comments -- did you see her making this? I was watching. I was starting to fall asleep watching because it's hard to stay awake, let's face it. So I was starting to doze off and then I heard the word "deplorable." I said, whoa, and "irredeemable, " think of it.But her comments display the same sense of arrogance and entitlement that led her to violate federal law as Secretary of State, hide and delete 33,000 emails.Think of it, 33,000. But it really had to do with yoga and the wedding -- yoga. So what do we do? We give yoga five and the wedding three, right? Where are the rest of them? Destroy her phones. And think of this, with a hammer, boom, 13 of them. Put classified information in the reach of our enemies, lie to Congress and sell government favors and access, just sells government favors and access.It's the same attitude of arrogance and entitlement that explains why she has never taken accountability for the disaster she created in the Middle East. What you're seeing is largely a creation of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.Before she came into office, Libya was stable, Syria was under control, right, you just said it, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence and Iran was being totally choked off by sanctions, they were not going to make it.The group today, and you see it, today we call ISIS -- this is the group that was formed -- we call ISIS, and it was close to being extinguished, now after Hillary here's what we have. Libya, Syria and Iraq are in total chaos. Iran is on the path to nuclear weapons and is becoming not a local power, but a world power so fast. How fast has this taken? They were dying two years ago, look what's happened. And remember the $400 million in cash? Well, that turned out to be wrong. I'm sorry, it turned out to be $1.7 billion in cash.Now, can you imagine, can you imagine the scene of $1.7 billion in cash, different denominations? I mean, the whole thing is so -- it wasn't $400 million, it was $1.7 billion. Who does this? Where are these people coming from?And now you look at Iran and they're emboldened. They want to shoot down our airplanes. You see with the little boats going around our ships, you see that, and taunting, they're taunting. They feel emboldened after all of this. Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy. It's going to be so different, folks. I promise.Can you imagine the captain on the destroyer as they keep circling with these little boats. He wants to shoot them out of the water so badly. He was standing there like this, just looking, just looking saying, what is going on, where have we come and gone?ISIS is spreading everywhere and launching attacks against the West.Her judgment on the economy is no better. Hillary's donors and advisers are the same people who gave us NAFTA, the worst trade deal in the history, not of our country, in the history of our world. There has never been a trade deal as bad as NAFTA anywhere in the world.You look at upstate New York, you look at New England, you look at Colorado, you look at the manufacturing that's been ripped out of Ohio and Pennsylvania and everywhere and it's gone to Mexico and other places.And I tell this story because I have a friend, better than a consultant, it costs me nothing. He is a great guy, he builds plants. And I said to him, how are you doing? He said I'm doing unbelievably, we're building the greatest plants in the world. Where? He said Mexico. What about our country? Not so much. OK?It's going to change, folks. It's going to go the opposite, believe me.They allowed China entry into the World Trade Organization. You see where that got us. And now she wants to approve Transpacific Partnership.This will be -- she called it the gold standard -- this will be a disaster. Her policies have produced suffering everywhere, but especially in our inner cities. Forty-five percent of African Americans under the age of 6 are living in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of Africa-American youth are not employed.More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago since January 1st. Can you imagine? By the way, by the way, that's worse than Afghanistan, that's worse than these war-torn countries. It's more dangerous.The jobs are gone, the schools are failing, the communities are totally unsafe. And to the African Americans living in those communities, I say vote for Donald Trump, what do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? I will fix it. I will fix it.I'll bring back your jobs and your security and I'll fight for you harder than anyone has ever fought before.These cities have been run by the policies of Hillary Clinton and her friends. And I'm telling you, they're only getting worse, they're getting worse every time. She wants your vote and then she said see you, like, in four years. But hopefully we're not going to be worried about that.It is really sad, it is really sad what's happened to our inner cities. They want your vote. And by the way, the Democrats have run them for 50, 60, 70, even a hundred years uninterrupted, a hundred years, and look what you have. I will fix it, remember that. I will fix it. What do you have to lose?Somebody said, oh, that's not a nice thing, what do you have to lose. How can you be any more accurate than that? What do you have to lose?Everywhere she goes, scandal and failure follow. Just look at what she did in upstate New York. She promised 200,000 jobs and they ended up losing jobs. Remember, she was running for the Senate, it was a total disaster. She said we're going to be bring jobs back, she didn't bring anything, we lost jobs.The only people she delivers for are her donors. I'm going to deliver for the American people, I promise you that.And I'm spending my money on this race, folks. I'm spending my money. I've got a lot of time, energy and my money invested, that's for sure.So that includes lifting the restrictions, we have to do this, on American energy. There's $50 trillion of untapped energy reserves in our country and we're going to unlock that vast potential.That's going to be an amazing unlocking, too, believe me. This one action alone will raise the quality of life for tens of millions of Americans. We'll be a rich country again. We'll start paying off our debt. We'll lower your taxes. It's going to be a very beautiful thing to watch.We're also going to completely reform our trade deals. Ford, Ford Motor Company just announced they're moving all of their small- car division, they're moving. Where are they moving? They're moving to Mexico.This won't happen if I'm elected president, believe me. People are not going to be stealing our companies and we're not going to be losing our jobs. And if somebody like Ford or Carrier or all of these thousands of companies that are moving, if they think they're going to move, fire all of their employees so we get unemployment and we get no tax, they're going to make product at brand-new plants in another country, sell it into our country against -- and remember this, it'll now be crossing a very, very strong border, OK, very strong -- we're going to charge them a 35 percent tax on their product. And you know what they're going to say? They're going to say we're not moving, because if we have to do that it no longer makes sense to move.And the politicians could have done it, they could have done it. They don't want to do it because they're controlled by special interests, folks. It's very simple.Meanwhile, if we just stop China from stealing our intellectual property alone, we'd save 2 million jobs a year. We don't even talk to China about it. Right now, our trade deficit in goods all over the world is nearly $800 billion a year. Think of it. Who makes these deals? Who makes these deals? We have a trade deficit of $800 billion a year. And then they say I'm against trade. Well, I'm against deals like that, I can tell you. I mean, you're better off without them.This subtracts from our GDP. Our economy grew only 1.1 percent in the last quarter, and that's a catastrophe. If China goes down to 7 or 8 percent it's like a national emergency. We have 1.1 percent, it's pathetic. This is the weakest so-called recovery since the Great Depression. Another 14 million people have left the workforce entirely, it all came in, entirely since President Obama came into office.Another major reform is going to be school choice. I've outlined a plan to provide every disadvantaged child in America to choose the private/public magnet or religious school of his or her choice, for those of you that believe in education like I do.This will help lift millions of African-American and Hispanic children out of poverty. Since President Obama came into office, another 2 million Hispanic Americans have fallen into poverty. This is unacceptable. To the Hispanic community I say we are going to protect your jobs, we are going to build up your schools and we are going to deliver safety and opportunity to your children, and you deserve it.Earlier this week, along with my daughter, Ivanka......she's got a great heart, that I will tell you -- I will also rolled out a plan to help our mothers and our families get affordable child care.A married couple earning $50,000 per year with two children and $8,000 in child care expenses will save 35 percent from their current tax bill.A married couple earning $75,000 per year with two children and $10,000 in child care expense will receive a 30 percent reduction in your tax bill. Millions of low-income people will be removed from the tax rolls entirely.A Trump administration will deliver every American three things: a great economy, a safe country and an honest government free of corruption. We're going to get rid of them.I'm going to reduce taxes big leagueig league. We are going to reduce taxes. And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes very, very substantially.We're going to reduce taxes, eliminate horrible regulations, unleash American energy, appoint the great judges, save the Second Amendment......reduce crime, create school choice, end illegal immigration and renegotiate our terrible trade deals to put Americans back to work and to put Americans first.American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds, that includes Denver. They have some very nice skyscrapers. American hands will rebuild this nation and American energy mined from American sources will power this nation.American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country.I will fight for every neglected part of this nation. And I will fight to bring us all together, united in common purpose and common dreams. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past.It's time to just -- we have to break, we have to break. We have to break with those failures. We have so many failures.You know, think of it. We don't win anymore, folks. Where do we win? We don't win. We don't win with crime, we don't win with schools, we don't win with trade. Our military is depleted, our vets aren't being treated properly. And we are going to treat our vets properly.We lose with health care. We don't win anymore. We don't win. Our military can't beat ISIS. Can you imaging the great General Douglas MacArthur or the great General George Patton saying we can't beat ISIS? Patton would rip your heart out if you ever said that. We can't beat them, right?Can you imagine that, though? Can you imagine what they -- they're spinning right now. They're watching, they're spinning in their grave. And so often they'll ask me, how do you defeat ISIS? I say, you know what, I have a real chance of winning, I don't want to tell the enemy how I am thinking. Does that make sense?Now, can you imagine these people? I will give you good results, don't worry how I get there, OK? Please.We had a clown today, an absolute clown. Robert Gates, he's supposed to be an expert, he's been there forever. By the way, he writes a book, he says bad about everybody that he's worked for. He's been there for a long time, everybody that he's worked for, he's a nasty guy, probably has a problem that we don't know about, but he's a nasty guy. And he spoke badly about Bush, he spoke badly about Obama, he speaks badly about everyone. Never met the guy, never saw him -- I saw him on television, didn't like him. The end result is look where we are. He's a mess, OK? He's a mess.So he goes out and he says negative things about me. I never met him, I never talked to him. Believe me, I am so much better at what he's doing than he is. You won't even believe it. Look what he gave us.Look at the mess of all of these people that have been there for so many years. Look what we have. Look at the Middle East. If we never touched them we would have been a hell of a lot better off than we are right now. What a shame, all of the money, but most importantly the blood, the death.And what do we have now? We're in worse shape than we were 15 years ago by a factor of 10. And we've spent $6 trillion -- $6 trillion -- that seems to be the new number, $6 trillion.Much more importantly, the lives that we've lost because we're dealing with incompetent people, we're dealing with stupid people, we're dealing with people like Robert Gates that don't have a clue and then when they leave office they criticize everybody. I don't like critics. I don't like critics. I like the people that get it done and get it done right.We need to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous future, and we can do that. Jobs will return. Incomes will rise. And new factories will come rushing back to our shores, that's what we have to have.Once more, we will have a government of, by and for the people.We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you. I love you. Thank you, Colorado. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you, Colorado. November 8th, November 8th.Thank you!Wow. Thank you. Thank you so much.Really incredible. Thank you very much, and it's great to be back in Florida, my second home, as you know.We love Florida. This was a great victory for us in the primaries, and this is what's going to take us over the top in the general election November 8th.And we're going to make our country great again. We're going to do some -- some job. Thank you.As you know, we're doing very well in the polls and we're leading in many many states, including the great state of Florida.And we do expect to win Florida. I really expect it. It's going to happen. We're going to win Florida, we are going to win back the White House and we are going to be so happy with winning again, right, for our country. Our country is going to win again.But today, we have some very, very serious matters to discuss. Let me begin by thanking our incredible law enforcement officers who don't get the credit they deserve.But when I'm president, they will get the credit they deserve. What a fantastic job they do.What a fantastic job they do. Incredible. There have been Islamic terrorist attacks in Minnesota and New York City and in New Jersey. These attacks and many others were made possible because of our extremely open immigration system, which fails to properly vet and screen the individuals and families coming into our country. Got to be careful.Attack after attack, from 9/11 to San Bernardino, we have seen how failures to screen who is entering the United States puts all of our citizens, everyone in this room, at danger. So let me state very, very clearly. Immigration security is national security.My opponent has the most open borders policy of anyone ever to seek the presidency.As secretary of State, she allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released into our communities because their home countries wouldn't take them back. They didn't want to them. They didn't want them. They were too bad. They said, keep them, United States, we don't want them. And she did nothing about it. Now, she wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees above the high numbers we have already had.Altogether, her plan would bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term with no effective way to screen them or vet them. Law enforcement said there's no way.Her plan would cost $400 billion in terms of lifetime welfare, benefit and entitlement costs. You can't have getting if you don't look at ideology, and Hillary Clinton refuses to consider an applicant's world view, and thus, their likelihood of being recruited into the terror cause at some later date, which is going to happen in many, many cases. This isn't just a matter of terrorism -- terrorism. This is also really a question of quality of life.We want to make sure we are only admitting people into our country who love our country. We want them to love our country.And we want them to love our people.We support immigration that strengthens and uplifts our nation. People who come here, they support our values, and they want to uphold our Constitution.My highest duty as president is to protect our citizens and to uphold the Constitution of the United States.I will honor that duty to the fullest extent every single day and I will never waver. And I will tell you, that I consider a sacred obligation. Sacred.It's just a plain fact that our current immigration system makes no real attempt to determine the views of the people entering.Since 9/11 hundreds of immigrants and their children from high- risk regions have been implicated in terrorism and terrorist-related activity in the United States. Hundreds and hundreds.The Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, chaired by Senator Jeff Sessions -- who is a truly great senator and man -- has released this information in great detail, and we encourage you all to look it up.Now we learn, today, that another 858 immigrants from dangerous countries have slipped into our country and have been granted full citizenship despite pending deportation orders.These are people who were supposed to be deported, and they were given them full citizenship. They made a mistake. This is totally unacceptable. All together, there are nearly 1 million individuals in the United States with deportation orders who have not yet been removed.In the 20th century, the United States defeated fascism, Nazism and communism. Now we must defeat radical Islamic terrorism.Yet the president of the United States or my opponent -- and both -- won't even say the words "radical Islamic terror."In fact, Hillary Clinton talks tougher about my supporters than she does about Islamic terrorists, right?She calls the patriotic Americans who support our campaign, many of them cops and soldiers, deplorable and irredeemable, and she means it.Millions and millions of people.Has she ever talked that way about radical Islam? No.Or about those who oppose and murder women and gays overseas?Has Hillary Clinton ever called people who support these practices deplorable and irredeemable? No.In many countries overseas, non-believers face the death penalty. Where is Hillary's condemnation there? There is no condemnation.Let's ask Hillary Clinton, "How many people who subscribe to radical Islamic views and support the oppression of non-believers would you call deplorable or irredeemable, or are those words reserved only for hardworking Americans that truly love our country and they want to make a statement?"To hear the words Hillary Clinton uses, one could be forgiven for getting the impression that she thinks these hardworking Americans are somehow a greater threat to our country than Islamic extremists. This summer, there has been an ISIS attack launched outside the war zones of the Middle East every 84 hours. Here in America we've seen one brutal attack after another. Thirteen were -- I mean, have you ever seen anything like what's going on with our country? And we don't do anything.Thirteen were murdered and 38 were wounded in the assault on Fort Hood.The Boston Marathon bombing wounded and maimed 264 people and ultimately left five dead, including two police officers. And so badly wounded.In Chattanooga, Tennessee, five unarmed Marines were shot and killed at a military recruiting center.Last December, 14 innocent Americans were gunned down at a party -- think of it -- an office party in San Bernardino, and another 22 were horribly injured.In June, 49 Americans were executed at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, and another 53 were injured terribly. It was the worst mass shooting in our history and the worst attack on the LGBTQ community in our history.In Europe, we have seen the same carnage and bloodshed inflicted upon our closest allies.In January 2015, a French satirical newspaper, Charlie Hebdo, was attacked for publishing cartoons of the prophet Mohammed. Twelve were killed, including two police officers, and 11 were wounded. Two days later, four were murdered in a Jewish deli.In November 2015, terrorists went on shooting and they just went on a rampage -- and this you heard and you'll never hear the end of it; one of the worst things that anybody has ever seen. They went on a rampage, they slaughtered 130 people and wounded 368 people -- so gravely wounded that many are still in the hospitals. And they'll never be the same.In March of this year terrorists detonated a bomb in the Brussels airport, killing 32 and injuring 340 people.This July, the south of France, an Islamic terrorist turned his truck into an instrument of mass murder, killing 85 men, women and children and wounding 308 people. Among the dead were two Americans, a Texas father and his 11-year-old son.Shortly after that in Germany, a refugee armed with an axe wounded five people in a gruesome train attack.Also this summer, an ISIS killer invaded a Christian church in Normandy and forced an 85-year-old priest to his knees and slit his throat right before his congregation.Overseas, ISIS has carried out one unthinkable atrocity after another. Christians driven from their homes and hunted for extermination. ISIS rounding up what it calls the nation of the cross in a campaign of genocide. Horrible genocide.We cannot let this evil continue. Cannot do it.Cannot do it.Nor can we let the hateful ideology of radical Islam, its oppression of women, gays, children and non-believers, be allowed to reside or spread within our country. Just can't do it.We will defeat radical Islamic terrorism just as we have defeated every threat we have faced in every age before.But we will not defeat it with closed eyes or silent voices. Anyone who cannot name our enemy is not fit to lead this country.Do we love our country? Do we love our...Thank you. Thank you. Greatest people on Earth. Greatest.And we have a lot of great people on Earth. I have to tell you that, folks. We have a lot of great people on Earth, but we have to fight the bad ones. We have to all do it together. Anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, the oppression and violence of radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our president.Just remember, doing it for many, many years, and now she is saying what she's going to do. She very much caused the problem, when you think about it. Her weakness, her ineffectiveness caused the problem, and now she wants to be president. I don't think so.The commander-in-chief of this nation must speak with moral clarity and conviction. Our system of government is the best in the world, and as your president, I will defend our values and speak out against all of those who assault our values in any way, shape or form.We will be united -- thank you. We will be united and unified as Americans across all backgrounds and all walks of life. Today, we have caught this evil thug who planted the bombs. Thank you, law enforcement. Thank you, police. Great.But the bad part -- now we will give him amazing hospitalization. He will be taken care of by some of the best doctors in the world. He will be given a fully modern and updated hospital room. And he will probably even have room service, knowing the way our country is. And on top of all of that, he will be represented by an outstanding lawyer. His case will go through the various court systems for years, and in the end, people will forget and his punishment will not be what it once would have been. What a sad situation.We must have speedy, but fair trials, and we must deliver a just and very harsh punishment to these people.We must also use whatever lawful methods are available to obtain information from the apprehended suspect to get information before it's no longer timely.And Congress should pass measures to ensure that foreign enemy combatants are treated as such. These are enemies. These are combatants. And we have to be tough and we have to be strong.Hillary Clinton is a weak and ineffective person, and I will tell you, if you choose Donald Trump, these problems are going to go away far, far greater than anybody would think. Believe me.It disqualifies her from being a credible presidential candidate in my opinion. What do I know? In my opinion. Does everybody agree with me or not?That's all we need is four more years of Obama, except worse.And I will say this. You see that in the polls, you see it all over, you see it outside. She has very, very, very low levels of enthusiasm. I think a lot of people are not going to bother and go to the polls to vote for her. But I know that our people, and this is also in the polls, the highest level of enthusiasm that they've seen. We're going to vote.Obama-Clinton have been silent about Islamic terrorism for many years. That's not lessened the recruiting, but it's increased it. That's what's really happened. It's increased -- its -- weakness invites aggression. We are weak. Weakness invites aggression, and silence in the face of a brutal enemy -- and they have become brutal because we've allowed them to become brutal -- it allows it to spread, and that's what's happening all over the world.Now, has anyone ever heard -- has anyone ever heard "The Snake " that I read every once in awhile? I can do it if you'd like. Should I do it or not?Should I?Because to me -- this was written by Al Wilson in the 1990s -- and I heard it, and I said, boy, that is exactly what is going on here. "The Snake, " because people are coming across our border, people are coming in and brought into our country. We are going to make potentially the Trojan horse look like something that's very unimportant by comparison.And we don't want to be the ones that in 200 years from now they're reading about allowing something else into our country with a different name than the Trojan horse, but had the same impact.So this is called "The Snake, " and this has to do with people coming into our country, and I think you will enjoy it. Let's see. And more important than enjoy, I think it will make a point."On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tenderhearted woman saw a poor, half-frozen frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh, well, she cried, I will take you in, " like we're doing, "and I'll take care of you."Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in, for heaven sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the broken snake. She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk and then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. "Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she had taken in had been revived. Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in for heaven sake. Take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake."Now, she clutched him to her bosom. You're so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now, you certainly might have died. Now, she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite.It's amazing, gonna happen unless we get very, very, very smart.Oh don't worry about it, we're gonna build a wall. Don't worry about it, we'll build a wall, don't worry about it.I was against going into the war in Iraq, but we got out the wrong way. President Obama did a terrible thing the way he got us out of the war.And by the way and somebody was telling me, a great expert this weekend, Iraq has essentially been taken over by Iran. All of those lives, all of that money, trillions and trillions of dollars, what have we got? And then on top of it, he got us out the wrong way and ISIS formed. Great job, President Obama, great job, great job.Just like we named our enemy in the Cold War, so too must we name our enemy today.Clinton's comments might not fit the far left think tanks, but they have no place for someone seeking a job as commander-in-chief. They aren't just naive, but reckless and they're beneath the high standards of the office that she is seeking.The White House says it's just a war of narratives. Imagine telling that to the thousands of people murdered by this sadistic, evil enemy. This is the so-called leadership that's turned ISIS loose on the world and flung our borders wide open, wide open. It's time for tough borders, it's time for common sense, it's time to do things right.We have to put America First. We have to put America First.Obama and Clinton have toppled regimes, displaced millions of people, then opened the door to ISIS to enter our country. This is a not-too-smart policy, this will go down when people look at this in the years ahead as among the worst foreign policy decisions ever made by any country at any time. We have opened the world to ISIS and now we have to close those doors.Hillary Clinton's decisions overseas have left us with the threat we face today and her immigration policies will invite this threat onto our shores, and it's already happening. We must stop the massive inflow of refugees which Hillary Clinton is trying to dramatically increase, far more than we're taking in now, she wants it dramatically increased.You almost say, is this possible? You almost say, can this even be happening especially in light of what's going on all over the world. We should temporarily suspend immigration entirely from regions where safe and adequate screening cannot occur.My policy will benefit the millions of wonderful immigrants living here and the wonderful immigrants coming in to our country in the future because all good and descent loving people want to live in a good and decent loving country.Let me emphasize this point. The pro-immigrant position is the position that favors tough screening and tight controls and we want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally through a process and we need extreme screening.All immigrants benefit when we keep out those who do not truly wish to join our society. Immigrants benefit economically in terms of less job competition and they benefit in terms of safety when we control future admissions into our nation. We want to take care and protect all of our people, including our great law-abiding, American loving immigrants.No one has the right to immigrate to this country. It is the job of a responsible government to admit only those who expect to succeed and flourish here and really be proud of what they've done and where they came from and they have to love our country. They have to love us.What amazing people. You know, Florida, I think we're gonna win by a lot. We're gonna win by a lot.I can say this. When Hillary comes in, she has very small crowds, that I can tell you. And I hope the press is covering the size of this arena and the crowd here and the thousands that are outside, which they're not.What kind of screening procedures were performed? These were difficult subjects but they must be discussed by all responsible leaders. We have an obligation to discuss them and to come up with the right solution.This is the kind of thing we need to have an honest conversation about when devising screening methods, they have to be good screening methods. They have to be methods that work, and unless we have those methods, sorry folks, you can't come into the country. Sorry.Just look at the San Bernardino horrible shooting and the female shooter who came on a fiance visa from Saudi Arabia. Defeating this threat will also require the best intelligence gathering in the world.By the way, the detainees they released from Gitmo are returning to the battlefield. You're hearing about that, right? Let them go, let them go, and then they return to the battlefield and everybody's surprised. Is anybody in this room surprised that many -- that many of those detainees are returning to the battlefield and some immediately?We also need the best protection of classified information. That is the worst situation. Hillary's private email scandal, which put our classified information in the reach of our enemies, disqualifies her from the presidency. Totally.Then she covered up her criminal acts by mass deleting her emails. How about she gets a subpoena from the United States Congress and after she gets the subpoena, she deletes 33,000 emails plus and everything's just fine. What is going on?And not only -- not only did she delete them, but she bleached them, something that most people have never even heard about, and she destroyed her phones, many the old fashioned way with a hammer. Did anyone ever hear of this before? This is beneath the dignity of the Oval Office.Our next president must also stand up for America and promote American values.Do you all remember President Obama's apology to her? He apologized for the United States.We're sorry, we're so sorry. We're so sorry. His naive words were followed by even more naive actions. The failure to establish a new status of forces agreement in Iraq and the election driven timetable for withdrawal, a disaster, surrendered our gains in that country and led directly to the rise of ISIS. I opposed going into Iraq, unlike Hillary Clinton, and I opposed the reckless way Obama- Clinton left Iraq.The failures in Iraq were compounded by Hillary Clinton's disaster in Libya. President Obama has since said he regrets Libya as his worst mistake. And you wouldn't know it to watch him, but I believe that if you could go back years and he had the decision whether or not to make her secretary of State, he can never admit this and I never expect him to, although, maybe if he gets a lot of money for a book, but he would choose not to make her secretary of State. That's what I think because she was a disaster.She's the one who pushed for the war with one episode of bad judgment after another. And remember, Bernie Sanders during the debates said on numerous occasions that Hillary Clinton suffers from bad judgment. She does. So, that bad judgment was just a disaster and we have now the situation that we have. Lots of problems all over the world. And yes, ISIS has been launched and launched fully.Yet as she threw the middle east into violent turmoil, things turned out very well for her. The Clintons made $60 million in gross income while she was Secretary of State.Enough is enough. It's time to break with the corruption, the bad judgment and the failures. It's time to have a new and great American future.We're going to change our immigration system to reflect American values. Remember, American values. We're going to stop the reckless and costly policy of regime change overseas and instead focus on working in partnership with our allies on a military campaign to utterly destroy ISIS. We have no choice. This effort will require military warfare, but also financial warfare, cyber warfare and even ideological warfare. We have to beat them at their own game.They're playing the game much better than we are and youth is going for their version, not our version. Our goal is not to build democracies, our goal is defeat -- we want to defeat our enemies. And then we want to get back to rebuilding our country. Our country's a mess. Our infrastructure's a disaster. We owe right now almost $20 trillion and our country's in trouble.Enough endless war. It's time to have a real plan for victory. But to win this struggle, we need to be strong at home. My economic plan can be summed up in three very simple words; jobs, jobs, jobs.I am going to massively lower your taxes. That's businesses and that's middle income, that's everybody.I'm going to get rid of the vast amounts of unnecessary regulations on your businesses and in your life. It's horrible. I'm going to repeal and replace Obamacare; it's a disaster.I'm going to unleash American energy -- unleash American energy.And wait until you see what happens. We'll start paying down our debt. So many things can happen and even your electric bill will be a lot less. I hope.We do it properly, I know. I'm going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court who will follow the Constitution.I'm going to rebuild our depleted military and take care of our veterans.I'm going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals -- and they are indeed a disaster. I'm going to put American workers first and fix our rigged system. It's a rigged system, folks. We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospitals.American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar the skies and American ships will patrol the seas.American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds. American hands will rebuild our nation. American hands.And American energy mined from American sources will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation and I will fight to bring us together as one American people. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new inclusive and prosperous American future, a future of success, togetherness and unity. A future of fixing our inner cities and our African-American areas of this country that have been treated so badly.Our inner cities are a horror. No jobs, no safety, education is the worst. We're going to fix it. We're going to fix it.You have been hearing that for years and years by the Democrats who have run the inner cities for, in some cases, more than 100 years straight. We're going to fix our inner cities and I am going to get tremendous votes from the African-American community.And we're going to get tremendous votes from the Hispanic community. We're going to bring jobs back to our country.We're going to bring jobs back to our country. And once more, we're going to have a government of, by and for the people.We will make America -- and some people don't like this, because it doesn't sound right -- wealthy again.And we will make America great again. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you. God bless you.Thank you. Thank you, everybody. It is great to be in North Carolina.It's really a special place. I love it. Really, an amazing -- an amazing place. And, you know, we had a great primary victory here.And I'll tell you what. It's been -- it's been a wonderful experience. We -- we've been touring the state all day. I hear we're leading in the polls in North Carolina.And come November 8th, we are going to win this state and we are going to win back the White House.And when we do that, we are going to bring our jobs back to North Carolina. That I can tell you.And we are going to have a great victory for the people. It's going to be for the people. So, we have to, and we don't have any choice, replace a very failed and very corrupt establishment with a new government that serves you, your family, and your country. And that's going to happen.Hillary Clinton represents insiders. She represents the donors, the politicians, the big banks, the multinational corporations and everybody getting rich off a very rigged system and we know that. She represents everyone responsible for the decades-long squeezing of the middle class. The middle class in this country has been treated so unfairly as jobs and wealth move to other countries like Mexico and plenty of others.Hillary Clinton is the chief emissary for globalism. And I'm not running to be president of the world. I'm running to be president of the United States.I'm running to represent America and America First, and America is going to come first from now on. It's no longer going to be in second position.Hillary Clinton is the vessel for all of the global special interests seeking to run our government and our lives. And it's not going to happen anymore.And what we've done is we've created a movement, all over the country, it's like this. Look at these crowds. Look at the people outside, the thousands of people outside. Look at what's going on, all over the country, we've created a movement and the people, we are going to do and what we have done for the people, people are energized now like they've never seen before. I think we're doing records it's called in energy as opposed to some of my opponents.And all of the people pushing the disastrous trade deals -- all of these people, they're making a fortune in Washington, pushing trade deals that take jobs away from North Carolina and all these states, those days are over. They jobs are coming back.All of the people -- they are just pushing everything, but all of the people, they keep digging and digging and digging us into a hole. And I'll tell you, open borders, we're going to end. You see what's happening with our open borders. That's all going to end.The people trying to rig our financial system and our economy are the people giving their money to Hillary Clinton. Our campaign is about breaking up the special interest monopoly. I understand special interests, believe me. We are going to break up the monopoly of the donor and the special interest. We're trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations and the media executives, all of whom want to keep things exactly as they are right now, good system.And we know it's a rigged system, all you have to do is ask Bernie Sanders and you'll see. With the super delegates. They did a number on Bernie. They did a number. And they are trying to game -- you know, we have a little debate coming up very shortly, right?Right. So we had sort of a forum the other night and that worked out very well. And Matt Lauer did a very good job. But by trying to hit Matt, they're trying to game the system like game the ref.And -- but I think Lester Holt will be very fair. But a lot of people are going to be watching to see if that's true. The reason why so many corporate newspapers and news anchors are opposed to our movement is the same reason why the lobbyists and the donors are...... movement.Hello? See now, here's the problem. So I wouldn't pay the mic guy, right?The mic just shot. That was a weird sound, wasn't it? So I wouldn't pay the mic guy and they'll say, isn't that terrible. He didn't pay his bills. When people don't do a good job for me I don't pay them. It's one of those things.I don't know. My father -- my father taught me that a long time ago and probably your parents taught you that too. Anyway, they're all part of the same political system. So they go to the same restaurants. They go to the same conferences. They have the same friends and connections. They write checks to the same think tanks and produce exactly the same reports.It's a gravy train and it just keeps flowing. On November 8, that special interest gravy train is coming to a very abrupt end.The insiders in Washington and Wall Street look down at the hardworking people like you, like so many people in this state, like so many people in this country. But you're the backbone of the country. And I understand that. And you understand that. You are the people that make the country run. You are the heart and soul of the nation. And you don't ever, ever, ever forget it. Don't ever forget it, folks.Hillary Clinton lifted the veil on this whole corrupt scheme when she called you deplorable and irredeemable.These insiders, the political elites as they say, you see it, OK? You see it. They are supposed to be OK.Believe me, I like what we have together. What we have together is special. What we have together has never been together before like it is right now in this nation's history.And when we have rallies like this, I have to say -- we have rallies like this and we have seven, eight, nine, 10,000 routinely, those are like the smaller crowds. We were in Pensacola the other day, we were -- no matter where we go, and Hillary goes out for rallies and yesterday, I think she had 200 people.She had 200 people, maybe 300. I'll say 300 because they'll say I was wrong. What we have, folks, is something special. That's why on November 8th, you have to get out and you have to vote, but that's also why on October 20th, I believe, you can go early and you can do your ballots and you have to do it.And you have to get all your friends out because if we win North Carolina -- we're up in Florida, we're up in Ohio, we win North Carolina, we're winning. We're going to win.We're going to win, so October 20th.Clinton doesn't see you as people to serve, but subjects to rule over. Hello? Is that friend or foe? Is that friend? Her friends see you as people who aren't entitled to run this country or this government and that's what they see.They don't want you or your family to have a voice. That's why I'm running. I am your voice. I promise I will be the greatest voice you've ever had.We'll bring our government back to the people. We'll break up the donor, media, industrial complex because there is nothing so dishonest as our media and not everybody -- not everybody.Honestly, not everybody. But a large portion of it, and it's very, very unfair. And it's bled this country dry. And that's given us all of the problems, the combinations of different groups, all of the problems that we have today.Hillary Clinton is the last line of defense for a failed political establishment, believe me. And she does not have you at heart. All of their money, all of their hopes for another generation of corruption -- all of the corruption -- the tremendous corruption, that's what we have vested in her.Now, I will say, we have just gotten some reports. And we're getting these phenomenal poll numbers, and they're saying that our expenditures on advertising, our expenditures on people, our expenditures on everything are a tiny fraction and yet, we're minimum tied and we might probably, actually be winning, spending a tiny fraction -- spending a tiny fraction.Now, in the old days and for the business people here of which we have many, if you spent less, had fewer people, did less advertising -- in a one state, I think they said we did one fiftieth -- one fiftieth spend less advertising and we're winning.They used to give you credit for that. In our country, right now, with these politics, they say, well, you should have more people. You should spend more money. I'm saying to myself, it doesn't work that way. If you can spend less and be winning that's a positive thing, right?That's the person you want as your president, I think. The Clinton campaign exists for one reason and that's to continue rigging.And look, you know what's going on. You know what's going on. It's rigging the system, just like she rigged the system for her donors when she was Secretary of State.What happened, what happened when she was Secretary of State was a total disgrace. So, her conduct as Secretary of State, giving all of these special favors, was something like we have never seen in this country before. And then you can take a look at emails. You can take a look at all of the things that happened, all of the money that was made, all of the disgraceful conduct. It's really exhibit A against our truly, and I can't say corrupt system because it's not a totally corrupt system. It's a system that's out of control.It's a system -- it's just off-kilter. We're going to put it back into kilter, folks. We're going to make America great again.And we're going to make it great. We're going to make America great again.Now, I have to tell you -- I have to tell you a couple of things because this is a group that likes jobs, right? We can -- we can talk about Hillary Clinton for hours. We can talk about the rigged system. We can talk about the 33,000 emails that were deleted. We can talk about all of the problems that our country's had. You look at her with Libya. You look at her with all of the different things -- look at ISIS. ISIS was formed in the vacuum that she and Barack Obama created.They created this vacuum, and ISIS was formed. Now, she is telling us how to get rid of ISIS, right? I don't think so. Now, I don't know if you've heard, but over the last number of years, she's wanted 550 percent more Syrian refugees to come into the United States. Two days ago -- two days ago, President Obama said and very strongly said that he wants 120,000 -- some vast number -- 120,000 to come in to the United States. Look at the problems we're having now. Look at the problems that the world is having now. Look at what's going on. We can't allow it to happen. We can't allow it to happen.And it's not going to happen. Now, what is going to happen...What is going to -- and this is so important, and I just think it's one of those things that we're going to see because it's politics.Hillary is all of a sudden going to get tough. The debate comes and she'll say, I want strong borders. I believe she meant the term extreme vetting. Where did you hear extreme vetting before? Only from me. Because I made up the term. I mean, I came up, I said, we need extreme vetting to come into our country.All of a sudden...Lots of this -- really, lots of advantages for them to do that. No advantage for our country, no advantage for our jobs. So, I'll give you a couple of examples. And I think it's horrible. Ford Motor Company just announced that they are moving their small car division, did anybody hear this, to Mexico.Unbelievable numbers of jobs -- tremendous numbers of jobs, and we're not going to let it happen. We're not going to let this -- we lost -- in North Carolina, you lost 44 percent of your manufacturing. NAFTA has been a disaster for North Carolina.NAFTA has been a disaster for this country. You go to Pennsylvania, you go to Ohio, you go to all of these states, you go to New York State, you go to New England, look at what's happened to our country. We're not going to let it happen any longer. We're not going to let them take our businesses any longer, these corrupt politicians, we're not going to let them take our businesses any longer. It's not going to happen, OK? It's not going to happen.We won't let it happen. Now, we have a tremendous problem with immigration, but we have a tremendous problem with job loss. And we have a real problem with good jobs because we're keeping jobs. They are bad jobs. They are considered, we're losing our good jobs.So, a couple of examples, you remember what happened in Indiana recently with Carrier Air Conditioning, right? They fired all their employees. They said we're moving to Mexico. Congratulations. It was captured, this firing, on somebody's beautiful cell phone.A great thing, because if I didn't see it on the cell phone, it wouldn't have meant that much. And if other people didn't, and it happened to be just before my primary in Indiana, which I won in a landslide largely because of Carrier.So, what happened -- what happened is they let their employees go. They're going to move to Mexico. Tremendous -- I tell you what -- tremendous advantages were given to Carrier to stay, but they decided to fire 1,400 people and go to Mexico.They are building a brand new plant. And I wish them well, but here is the story folks. This could have been stopped years ago. The politicians didn't either understand it or if they did understand it they certainly didn't want to do it.I actually think it's a combination of both, but what's going to happen is the following. If we had somebody -- I would love to do it myself, but I'm not sure if presidents are supposed to call up the head of an air conditioning company and explain to them why -- why they're not going to do that.But I'll tell you what. We are going to tell them in the nicest of language, Mr. President of Carrier, I'm sorry. If you think you're going to leave Indiana -- Indianapolis to be exact -- fire all these people, get rid of everybody, we have no income, no taxes, no nothing. You're going to move to Mexico into a brand new plant. You're going to make products. You're going to make your air conditions and sell them through our very strong border because, by the way, we will build the wall. We will have...No, no, we're building the wall. We're going to have a very, very strong border. Who is going to pay for the wall?Do you even have a doubt? No, do you have even -- do you have even a doubt?So, what we're going to do is we're going to tell Carrier and everybody -- I hate to use Carrier only, but they're a perfect example. They make air conditioners, good air conditioners, I used to buy them, I won't buy them anymore but I may never buy an air conditioner again if I win, OK? If I lose, I may be buying them a lot but I don't know, this is much more exciting than the real estate business to be honest with you.But we're going to tell them that, look, if you move, we are going to charge you 35 percent every time you make an air conditioner and think you're going to sell it back into our country, OK,Thirty-five percent. And I'll tell you what will happen every single time, like 98 percent -- 98 percent they're going to say, well, let's go get a lobbyist.Now, I'm putting up my own money and I'm into this thing for a lot of money, folks, OK? I'm putting up my own money. I don't know if it's ever happened. I guess Ross Perot put up his own money. But I'm putting up my money, I'm raising money from the small donors and some larger donors going to through the Republican Party, the RNC, Reince Priebus -- is by the way doing a great job -- but we're raising for the Republican Party, but I am putting up millions and millions and millions of dollars, so, if you don't go out to vote I'm going to feel very, very foolish I'll tell you.I'm going to say one of the -- one of the pundits said it doesn't matter whether he wins or loses; what he has done has been amazing. It's never been done before. And you know what I say to that, if I lose, I wasted a lot of time, energy and money, that's the way I look at it. I don't -- I don't view it the way they look at it.And I will say it has been an amazing experience. But here's what's going to happen. We're going to say to them -- and I have the greatest business people in the world backing me, Carl Icahn, so many different business people and we'll -- we have to use our great business people.We have to use our great negotiators on trade and they'll say, look, here's the story, if you move, Mr. Carrier, if you move, it's fine. Enjoy your new plant. The weather is hot but that's OK. Enjoy the new plant. But if you move, there's going to be this tax. They're not going to move, folks. They're not going to move. They're going to say, well, we're going to stay.Now, they'll stay in Indiana, they may come to North Carolina, all of that stuff is fine, right? But they're not leaving our country so easily. We can't continue to be the suckers that allow thousands of companies, millions of jobs to be lost by moving their manufacturing plants and factories to other countries, we can't do it.We can't do it. We cannot do it.So, one of two things is going to happen, either they're not moving, they're staying in Indiana or the United States and this goes for many, many companies, there are many companies right now in North Carolina that are talking about moving to Mexico and other places. I hate to tell you, you have a job, you think you have a good job, you better get back immediately, stop listening to this.The fact is you have companies right now where you work that are negotiating to move out of North Carolina, OK? They are negotiating to move out of different states and our politicians do nothing about it. And the reason is two reasons -- number one, they're not very smart; number two, a lot of times they're taken care of by donors and special interests that want them to move out. They have reason to have them move out especially when you can make your product and sell it into the United States with no tax, no nothing.So, either they're going to stay which most of them will because the numbers don't work anymore when they have to pay that tax or they're going to leave and we're going to make a fortune every they sell something into this country, so it's OK, I don't care.But we're not going to have it any longer where our companies fire everybody, move to Mexico and other places and then after all of that work, we end up with unemployment and nothing, OK? And they end up with great jobs, great factories.A friend of mine and you might have heard me say this, but it happened a month and a half ago, he's one of the biggest in the world at building plants, he builds plants, big car plants, big -- all kinds of plants. That's all he builds. If you tell him build an apartment house, he wouldn't maybe know how to do it but he builds great plants.And I said to him, how's business? Unbelievable. Really, that's good, how is it -- I mean, in the United States? No, not good here. I said, what do you mean, not good here? He said, you got to see Mexico.We're building plants -- he said to me, Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world. It's going to be the car capital of the world. Michigan is getting killed. Ohio is getting killed. A lot of states are getting killed including, by the way, North Carolina, they're getting killed. Your jobs are being moved. Your companies are moved down to Mexico and to other places but Mexico in particular.China is a disaster. We have a trade deficit with China, $500 billion a year trade deficit. By the way, our trade deficit with Mexico is also massive -- it's massive. But we have a $500 billion trade deficit with China. And let me tell you something, that's not going to happen with me. It's a -- it's a two-way street. We got to remember it's not a one-way street.You know, when Boeing goes and wants to sell planes to China, they make them build plants and after those plants, and I told this to the people in South Carolina who I love, but they have a big Boeing complex but they're now building a big Boeing complex in China. When that complex is built and they start devaluing their currency and they start playing around because they're currency manipulators like nobody that's ever been there, even better than Japan in their prime, and they start selling airplanes at prices that this country can't compete with, I'll tell you what, you got to be careful, but that's what's happening right now.When they -- when Boeing made their deal with China, China took their intellectual property, they took so much. And if they didn't take it, it wouldn't matter because they steal intellectual property. So, I'm just saying this, I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, that I can tell you, that I can tell you.And Hillary Clinton doesn't have a clue, not even a clue.Now, when it comes to the bored -- and some of you have heard it and some of you haven't -- who has heard "The Snake"? How many people, raise your hands. Not too many. So, that's maybe 10 percent. Should I do it or should I not do it?Yes? All right. I'm going to do it.I'll tell you what, to me, I love it because it's so descriptive, not complex at all, but it's so totally descriptive. We need strong borders. We can't have people coming into this country who don't love our people and love our country, that's all. And we want people -- we want people to come into our country, we really do. We want them to come into our country but they have to come in through a system and they have to come in legally. Right now, they are pouring across the borders.You know, I was endorsed by the Border Patrol Agents, 16,500 agents -- they've never endorsed a presidential candidate before, ever. They've never endorsed a presidential candidate, they endorsed me -- I consider it a great honor. These are great people that want to have a strong border. They are told to stand back, let people come in, stand back.We don't know what we're doing. And then to have the Syrians come in who just today it was said, they really can't be vetted and I don't know if anyone saw, I think it was 868 people -- did you see that -- they were scheduled for deportation and instead of being deported, I don't know if they pressed the wrong button or was there something dishonest going on, one or the other -- so, instead of being deported, they became citizens of the United States, almost 1,000 people.That's yesterday. They sort of hit the jackpot, didn't they? They're going to be deported, something happened and they became citizens of the United States.Folks, this could be the great Trojan horse. We have people coming into our country. We have no idea -- they are coming in from the Middle East -- we have no idea who they are. I used the term extreme, I made it up -- now, Hillary is copying it -- but we need extreme vetting but we don't need anybody until we find out what's going on from these regions of the world.And we want to help -- and we want to build safe zones and we want to have other people pay for the safe zones because right now, we have $20 trillion worth of debt. It's going to be very destructive unless somebody very, very good and very, very smart and knows what he -- in this case I have to say he, there's two of us -- is doing -- is doing.But I will tell you, President Obama has doubled the national debt. So, over 200 years of debt and in seven and a half years he's doubled it, think of it. So, we have almost $20 trillion. So, we're going to get Gulf states who are loaded up with money, loaded up with money, we're going to get the Gulf states to pay for safe zones.We'll lead the project like it's called OPM, I do that all the time in business called Other People's Money. There's nothing like doing things with other people's money because it takes the risk, you get a good chunk of it and it takes the risk. We're going to do this in this case from a humanitarian standpoint, OPM, Other People's Money.We'll do safe zones but we cannot have these people come into the United States. We don't know who they are. We know nothing about them. You saw what happened two days ago. We cannot continue these policies. We have enough problems in our country.Look at what happened to Germany. Look at what's happening in France. We cannot allow this to happen. Hillary Clinton wants open borders. She wants people to pour in. Barack Obama just approved over 100,000 people three days ago to come into this country from Syria. We can't do this, folks. We're not going to have a country left, OK?And think about that. And then I'm going to read The Snake, Al Wilson. Years ago, he wrote it. It's actually a song -- pretty cool song -- but the words is what I'm talking about because we don't know what we're doing but actually if you sit down and think about it, we know what's going to happen. And this is what's going to happen if we keep allowing these open borders and if we keep taking in tens of thousands of people that we frankly know nothing about and your law enforcement will tell you that they know nothing and there's no real way to vet these people."On her way to work one morning. Down the path along the lake. A tender hearted woman saw a poor half frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh, well, she cried, I'll take you in and I'll take care of you. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in, for heaven's sake, take me in oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake.She wrapped him up all cozy in a curvature of silk. And then laid him by her fireside with some honey and some milk. Now, she hurried home from work that night, as soon as she arrived. She found that pretty snake she'd taken in, had been revived. Take me in, oh tender woman, Take me in, for heaven's sake, take me in, oh tender woman, cried the broken snake.Now, she clutched him to her bosom, you're so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now surely you might have died. Now, she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed him and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in, for heaven's sake, take me in, oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake.I saved you, cried the woman, and you've bit me, heavens why? You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die. Oh shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I took you in, you knew damn well I was a snake, you knew everything about me before you took me in."Very simple. Very simple. Very, very, simple.Very, very simple. Very simple. So, we have a situation where it's not so different.Now, let's go over a couple of things because we have to repeal and we have to replace Obamacare, it's a disaster.I don't even have to talk about it. You know I used to explain it and I used to say that we have a really serious situation where your premiums are going up, your deductibles are so high, you never get to use it.The premiums are through the roof. The deductibles are so high, it's a disaster. We're repealing and replacing. We're going to take care of our vets. We're going to take care of our military. We are going to take care of our vets.We're going to appoint Supreme Court justices that truly believe in our Constitution, OK? Big thing, that's a big thing. We're going to get rid of common core. We're bringing education local, right?We are going to protect our second amendment which is under siege. We're going to protect it. Totally under siege and we're going to protect it and the NRA, these are great people, they endorsed me.And I'll tell you what, between Supreme Court judges, second amendment, Obamacare. And then obviously most important, our depleted military -- all of these things -- we have the greatest people on earth in our military but it's so depleted with the equipment they're getting, with all of the problems they have. We are going to rebuild our military and we're going to take care of our vets. We have to.And lastly, we have some of the worst trade deals ever made, headed by NAFTA. Other countries have ripped us like you've never seen before, vast parcels of land throughout our country including this state are empty with fallen buildings, empty, just empty. When you see it, it's so sad. You see buildings that were vibrant 30 years ago and now those companies have gone into other countries in particular into Mexico. And a lot of them have been closed because of what China has done to us.We are going to renegotiate our trade deals with our smartest and best business people. Those deals -- those deals are going to be from horrible job-sucking deals to -- we're going to reverse it. We're going to have a highway that goes in two directions, not in one direction out of the United States.We're losing our jobs. We're losing our taxes. We're losing our money and it's getting worse, OK? Just so you understand, you think it's over, it's getting worse. In fact, it's getting worse by far.We are going to be a trader. We're going to have free trade. I believe in free trade. But we're going to make great deals instead of horrible deals, because NAFTA and these horrible deals that were signed by numerous people, the World Trade Organization, disaster for us, the Korean trade deal, you got to see, signed by and wanted by Hillary Clinton, one of the worst deals I've ever seen. It was going to add hundreds of thousands of jobs to the United States, instead, it's the exact opposite. And it's been a great deal for South Korea, it's been a horrible deal -- a horrible deal for the United States. So, we are going to make our country so rich again. And a woman came up to me -- a wonderful woman not so long ago, she said, you know, Mr. Trump, I hate it when you're going to say -- and you say it -- you're going to make our country wealthy again or you're going to make our country rich again. It doesn't sound nice."I said, well, you know, it may not sound nice but unless we do that, we're not going to have a country left. We're not going to have a country left.So, we have no choice because we're going to save your Social Security as you have it and we're going to save lots of things that we have but we have a country that's essentially a debtor nation right now.So, we're going to make our country wealthy again. We're going to make our country safe again. We're going to rebuild our inner cities because our African-American communities are absolutely in the worst shape that they've ever been in before, ever, ever, ever.You take a look at the inner cities, you got no education. You get no jobs. You get shot walking down the street. They're worse, I mean, honestly, places like Afghanistan are safer than some of our inner cities. And I say to the African-American communities and I think it's resonating because you see what's happening with my poll numbers with African-Americans, they're going like high. But I say and I mean it, the inner cities have been run for many years by Democrats. And it's the same old thing, they want your vote and then they say, see you. Goodbye. I'll see you in four years.Hillary Clinton is an example of it. She ran for the Senate in New York State and she promised jobs that would be unbelievable for New York State, and guess what happened, the jobs didn't come. The jobs went the other way. It went down the absolute tubes.It has been a disaster ever since, that's why upstate New York, she's going to do so badly because she made promises that she's going to bring hundreds of thousands of jobs back and guess what happened, it went the other way. It got worse and worse and worse. It's just talk.These people, politicians, all talk, no action. With the inner cities, I say to the African-American people that have to suffer in these inner cities, what do you have to lose? I'm going to fix it. I'm going to fix it. I'm going to fix it.We're going to make it safe. We're going to help your schools a lot and we're going to have choice because you need choice if you're going to ever turn education around in this country. You know, we spend more per pupil than any country in the world and yet we're down at the bottom of the list. So, obviously, something's wrong. So, we're going to have choice. But I say, what do you have to lose, I'm going to fix it. And I'm telling you we will get it done. And we'll stop spending money and taking care of all these people that are coming into our country illegally and we'll start spending money where we have to spend it, OK? We'll start spending it.So, we're going to make our country wealthy again. And we're going to make our country strong again. Our military will be greatly enhanced. And we're going to make our country safe again. And we are going to make our country great again. Great.Thank you. God bless you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you, everybody.Thank you. Thank you. What a -- what a group that is -- Bobby Knight and -- that's really great. Do we love Ohio? Do we love Ohio? Having Bobby Knight, and having Don King and our Vice President -- he's going to be a great Vice President, too. I can tell you that.Bobby was here and they were all converged at one time. I said let's all do it -- let's give them a real treat. That's a treat, having that group.So I just want to thank everybody. We're doing really great in the polls. You know that. The Bloomberg poll -- we're up five in Ohio.In CNN -- CNN we're up three in Florida. We now lead Nevada, Iowa, we lead in North Carolina. The L.A. Times has us four or five points up, so it's really been amazing. On November 8th, we're going to win this state and we're going to win the White House. We're going to win it back.We're going to win it back. This is a movement and we're taking our country back for the people. We're taking it back. It's been a long time.As I travel the country, the crowds get bigger and the enthusiasm grows -- thousands of people outside. They just left because they figure we can't get in, unless somebody -- would anybody like to give up their seat?No? I thought you were going to say that. But there's so much love in the rooms. The Washington insiders -- they are panicking. They are very concerned.They are looking at what's going on with polls and they are saying "What's happening?" This wasn't supposed to happen. It wasn't supposed to happen in the primaries, and this wasn't supposed to happen, but it's happening and I think we're going to bring it all the way.We are going to replace our failed and corrupt establishment with a new government that serves you, your family, the country. You're going to be happy. The change is going to begin right away. The key is November 8th. If you can get in there a little early, that's OK too. November 8th.My economic agenda can be summed up in three very beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs.We have to bring our jobs back. On my first day in office, I'm going to order a review of every single regulation and Executive Order issued by President Obama.All job-killing regulations and all illegal Executive Orders will be immediately terminated.Excessive regulation costs our economy $2 trillion a year. Do you believe that? $2 trillion a year. I want to put that money back into the pockets of the American people, where it belongs.I am going to direct the Department of Commerce to identify every single violation of our trading rules by our foreign competitors who, in many cases, cheat. We will apply every lawful remedy to end these trade abuses once and for all. We have no choice. We are going to end them.Trade will be fair and reciprocal, and products will be made in America and sold all around the world like we used to do it, you know, when we were smart.We're going to pass one of the biggest and boldest tax reforms and tax reductions in American history. It's going to include a 15 percent tax rate for all businesses, small and large, making our country a magnet for new jobs. That's 15 percent -- down from 35 percent.Income taxes will be cut dramatically for the workers -- workers -- that, I mean, the really hard workers. You're paying too much tax, folks. Everybody knows it.So for the workers, the middle-class families, everybody, we're having a major, major tax reductions and, I will tell you, Ivanka Trump wants childcare taken care of and we're going to do that, OK?Also, on my first day I'm going to ask Congress to immediately send me a bill to repeal and replace Obamacare.Premiums in Ohio have increased more than 80 percent since Obamacare was passed -- 80 percent. Have you noticed? It's not a pretty picture, right? Eighty percent. Premiums have gone up almost $5,000 nationwide since 2009. More than two-thirds of our nations counties -- and think of this -- have lost insurance. Every day I'm reading another one left -- all the big ones -- their all leaving. It's falling anyway. We're going to replace it and -- and terminate it, but even if we didn't, it's not making it, just so you understand. We're going to replace government-run Obamacare with reforms that put patients first.These reforms include expanding access to popular healthcare savings accounts; empowering Americans to shop for their insurance so that they can really have great choices right across state lines; and to block granting; and, really important, Medicaid to the states so they can design innovative solutions to the best -- and it's going to be solutions, folks, that best serve you, your families, your children -- the whole thing -- best serve you.In addition to prosperity, we will also provide safety. We are going to take a swift, strong action to protect the American people from radical Islamic terrorism.In recent days, terrorists have attacked in New York City, New Jersey and Minnesota. And it's going to get worse -- it's going to get worse. If Hillary is president, it would be disaster. If Trump is president, you will be very, very happy.No, no, no. Not a pretty picture. But, if Trump is President, you watch how good it will be. It will be a whole different story.These attacks, like so many others, were made possible because of our extremely open immigration system. It's time to put firm immigration controls in place. Extreme vetting, right? Extreme vetting.To quote the bipartisan commission -- 9/11 -- "It is perhaps obvious to state that terrorists cannot plan and carry out attacks in the United States if they are unable to enter our country. How about that? That is why, on my first day in office, I will immediately suspend the admission of Syrian refugees.President Obama wants to bring in another 110,000 refugees next year.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase over Obama's numbers of Syrian refugees and we know nothing about the people.Altogether, the Hillary Clinton plan would bring in 620,000 refugees in her first term. Her plan would cost $400 billion in terms of lifetime welfare and entitlement costs. Think of that.Not only the danger of it all -- this isn't only a matter of terrorism, but also a matter of quality of life. We want to make sure that we are only admitting those into our country who support our values and love -- and I mean love -- our people.Pew polling shows that, in many of our countries --By the way -- Governor Pence, just come here for a second, will you?I see him standing back stage. This was one of my really great decisions, right here. This guy is a winner.Great guy, and a great family.Pew polling shows that in many of the countries from which we draw large numbers of immigrants, extreme views about religion are commonplace. For instance, according to Pew, a majority in Afghanistan and Pakistan say honor killings of women are often or sometimes justified. A majority of these countries also support the death penalty for those who leave the faith.We've admitted tens of thousands from these countries in the last few years, with no effective screening plan in place. We have no -- we have no idea who we're letting in. We have no idea. You see what's happening.In fact, Hillary Clinton, as Secretary of State, admitted multiple refugees who were later charged with terrorism related activities -- bad ones. The State Department administers the refugee program. Hillary had the chance to put the needed protections in place and she didn't do it. And now she's running -- she's going to be so tough -- she's going to be so tough.Not going to be tough. Not going to be tough.Hillary Clinton won't even say the words "radical Islamic terrorism". She won't say the words. Hillary Clinton -- she talks tough about my supporters. That's what she does. But she doesn't want to talk about Islamic terrorists. She calls the patriotic Americans who support our campaign, many of them cops and soldiers, deplorable and irredeemable.She won't use the same words to describe Islamic extremists who believe in the oppression of women, gays and people of different faiths. But our people? You? You? I guess me. Probably me more than anybody, according to her.But, our people, she has no problem with. Hillary Clinton thinks hard-working, patriotic Americans like you are the problem. She doesn't get it and she doesn't understand how democracy works, believe me. Public servers are just that. They're there to serve you.But the only people Clinton has ever served are the special interests and her donors. And I don't know if you saw her campaign -- 50-to-1 in advertising -- 50-to-1? And I think we're actually winning.I actually think we're winning. Fifty-to-one? Our campaign is about breaking up the special interest monopoly in Washington, D.C. We're trying to disrupt -- thank you -- we're trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations, and the media executives.They're all part of the same political establishment. They go to the same restaurants, they attend the same conferences, they have the same friends and connections.They all support the same ideology of globalism that makes them rich, while shipping your jobs, your factories and your wealth all the way out to other countries. I am not running to president of the world; I'm running to be President of the United States and that's what we're going to take care of.We are going to take care of our country. Wow, look at all the people up there. It's a big balcony. Hello, balcony.I am for America; but, specifically, I am for America First -- it's going to be America First.It hasn't happened in a long time. Together, we will rebuild this country beyond our greatest dreams. That rebuilding begins with American manufacturing. Ohio has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since the Bill Clinton-signed NAFTA disaster --NAFTA has devastated manufacturing right here in Ohio, and in Michigan, and Pennsylvania, and all over New England. And in the state of North Carolina, where I just left. Right now, if Ford builds a car in Ohio and exports it to Mexico, Mexico slaps us with a huge value-added tax, or a back-door tariff.But if Ford moves its factories to Mexico and then exports a car back to America, Ford gives Ford -- and Mexico works this -- but, Mexico, though the back, will give Ford a hefty VAT tax rebate and back door export subsidy. It makes it impossible for our country to compete. I don't know how many people just understood what I said. Does anybody understand? Right?Because it makes it impossible -- they made a mistake when they negotiated this deal. We have different tax systems and Mexico is -- I mean; they've got to be laughing. This has gone on for years. It makes it impossible for our country to compete. That's why -- how often do you see the factories going the other way? They don't go the other way. They go -- it's a one-way road out. Not anymore, folks, believe me.It's crazy. It's crazy. You look at that VAT tax; it's crazy. They get it both ways. In other words, they get it both ways. And then we're afraid to tax the product coming in, OK? And if we tax the product coming in; guess what, they wouldn't move -- they wouldn't be leaving. Because, now, Ford has just announced it's moving all of its small car production -- all of it -- to Mexico ---- where they are building among the biggest and most sophisticated plants anywhere in the world. Not us.Ohio has also lost more than 221,000 jobs since China joined the World Trade Organization -- another deal pushed by Bill Clinton and supported by his wife, Hillary.On November 8th, we can finally close the history book on her legacy of failure and turn the page to a bright and shining future.It will be a new dawn for the American worker. Starting in 2017, jobs are going to start leaving other countries and coming back to us, believe me. Believe me.That includes Apple products. We are going to have an immigration system that makes sense -- one based on merit, skill and promoting the economic interests of American workers.Our tax code, which now wastes billions and billions of dollars a year just in compliance, will become simple, streamlined, and efficient, and go way, way down -- we're taking those taxes way down. Way down. Your taxes are going way down.And Hillary Clinton -- and I don't know if you know this, because they don't talk about it -- Hillary Clinton is asking for a major tax increase. Remember that. Major.Government will start working again -- fixing things. We're going to have this economy work again for you. Just look at my projects in New York, where I turned rundown spaces into new centers of business, and we have hit such success taking buildings that were failures and made them successful -- made them incredible. Buildings, jobs, so many things -- even an ice skating rink that took eight years -- the City couldn't build it. I did it in three months. OK, you know about it.Where others only saw problems, I saw potential. We turned empty lots and empty buildings, and empty homes into living memories for thousands of workers and their families -- hired thousands and thousands of people and they've done a great job for me, I can tell you that.That's what I want to do for our country. I want to go into the neglected neighborhoods, the failing schools, the forgotten stretches of this nation, of which there are many, and unlock their potential for all of our people.I've made a living, for years, looking for unused spaces and imagining what could be. Politicians look at blighted neighborhoods and offer only excuses. They look for one thing.They look for the votes of people living in the inner cities and then they say "We'll see you later, in four years, after the election takes place. I look at the same neighborhoods and I want to offer solutions, and I have offered solutions. And all you have to do is look at what's happening with the poll numbers with African-Americans and with Hispanics. They are really going up big leagueig league because they get it. We spend so much time thinking about how things used to be. We've stopped thinking about how great things could be. All we have to do is turn out the doubters, the cynics and the naysayers, of which we have a lot of them. And I understand why we have so many, because they haven't seen -- it's been all talk, no action for so many years by politicians. But, just remember this -- I'm not a politician, thankfully. I'm not a politician.We are a nation of strivers, dreamers, and believers and that's the spirit that we will carry right into November -- November 8th, to be specific. And we are going to have a great, great, monumental victory. It's going to be an amazing day for this country.We've got to get some of that Bobby Knight stuff in us, right?He won. He knew how to win, that's for sure. It's that same spirit of resilience I have seen visiting the flood-ravaged towns of Louisiana, where Hillary Clinton refused to go, or meeting the incredible, but hard-hit people in cities and town like Flint, Michigan where I just left recently. That was a rough sight to look at Flint, Michigan. It's that spirit of strength we need to start winning again as a country.In this effort, no part of our country will be left behind. When any part of our country hurts, we all hurt. Nationwide, nearly four in ten African-American children live in poverty, including 45 percent of African-American children under the age of six. Can you believe that? Forty-five percent.We should never accept this level of poverty in our country. And there is no greater anti-poverty program in the world than real, good jobs.But, to unlock jobs, we must also make communities safe. Crime is rising across this country. More than 3000 people have been shot in Chicago since January of this year. To the African-American community, I say "Vote for Donald J. Trump. I will fix it."Not going to get any worse. It's terrible. The crime, the bad education, the no jobs. What do you have to lose? Believe me, I'm going to fix it. I will fix it. I will bring back your jobs, I'll fix your schools, I'll fight for you like nobody's ever fought for you before. We're going to fix those inner cities and we're going to make them really terrific. We're going to fix them.That plan includes school choice -- so important for our education. Under our plan, every low-income child in our nation will be able to attend the private, public, magnate or charter school, including religious schools, of their choice.I will be your greatest champion in the White House. Hillary Clinton, on the other hand, only fights to protect the corrupt political establishment. You know? Do you ever notice -- she is talking now about immigration, and schools, and education -- she's been there for 30 years; she hasn't done anything.In upstate New York, I have to tell you -- in upstate New York, when she was campaigning for the Senate, it was having a hard time. She said she's going to bring in 200,000 jobs. She got elected. She hasn't done anything. It's a disaster area right now, and you're going to have the same thing.If anything happened here, where she actually got in -- if that's possible -- you're going to have the same exact thing. Two hundred thousand jobs -- never happened. More jobs left. All of their money -- all of their hopes for another generation of corruption -- it was all vested in her.The insiders who wrote these checks all have Hillary Clinton on speed dial. Boom -- they have a problem -- boom. Whatever they want, she will get for them. Whatever they ask for, she will deliver. Whatever they say, they're wish will be granted. Unless you show up and vote on November 8th, I'll tell you what, nothing will change if you vote for her. You will be vote for Trump; that I can tell you.Big change. Big difference. Our movement -- and this is our movement -- will stop this and take our country back. But we have to do this together. You have to knock on doors. You have to pick up that phone. Go to the website. Learn more. Become a volunteer. That's what we need. We have to win Ohio -- such an important state. Ohio. Ohio.Don't forget, I worked in Ohio for a long time -- Cincinnati. I love Ohio. I worked here. That was a great experience for me.You have to campaign in the streets; spread the love that we, in this room, really love the people of the country and want to make our country great again. It's very simple. It's a very simple theme. To beat the system, you have to lift your voice, pound the pavement and get out and vote.You have 47 days to change the world -- at least the world as we know it. You have 47 days to make possible every dream -- and there are many dreamers right now in this room. Who's a dreamer? Who's in for it?You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this nation. Let us resolve, here and now -- this moment -- that we will give everything we have for the next 47 days -- all day, every day -- to make America great again.We will change all that has gone wrong in the last four years and eight years. We will, once again, make America the land of opportunity for all of its citizens. But we will also change everything that has gone wrong for so many decades. All of the policies that have served only the special few, we will rewrite so that they serve you, the American people -- as simple as that.Hillary Clinton is the last defender standing on this failed, failed, badly failed status quo. She's running to defend decades of failure in every area of political life. Her campaign message is "Things must never change " -- that's what she's thinking. My campaign message is things have to change, and they have to change right now.The arrogance of Washington, D.C. will soon come face-to-face with the righteous verdict of the American voter and worker. On November 8th, we are going to show the whole world that America is back -- bigger and better and stronger than ever before.This is what will happen starting in January of 2017. I'm going to lower your taxes, eliminate every unnecessary regulation -- which is just choking companies and people -- unleash American energy, appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold the Constitution of the United States ---- save the Second Amendment --And put the American worker first.We will rebuild our roads, bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools, hospitals -- all of it -- infrastructure. American cars will travel the roads; American planes will soar the skies; and American ships will patrol the seas once again. American steel will send new skyscrapers high into the clouds. American hands will rebuild our nation; not the hands of people from other countries.And American energy, harvested from American sources, will power this nation. And we are going to take care of our miners, and we are going to take care of our steel workers; they are not. These are special people. Miners -- who's a miner here?I see. Well, they have been pretty badly hurt, let's face it. Farmers? Do we love the farmers?You know, that's true. The farmers have been so underappreciated in this country. They are, truly, great -- amazing people. Stand up, farmers; give yourself a hand. Stand up. Come on. We're going to protect the farmer.We're going to protect the farmer. We have to protect the farmer. Without the farmer, we don't eat, and that's not good. We won't eat without the farmer. Thank you, farmers. What a job -- what a job you've done.American workers will be hired to do the job. We will put new American steel into the into the spine of this country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation and I will fight to bring us all together as one American people. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one god, saluting one American flag.We appreciate that now more than ever, don't we? It is time to break with the bitter failures of the past and to embrace a new, inclusive and prosperous American future. Jobs will return. Don't you like the sound of that?Incomes will rise and new factories will come rushing onto our shores. Once more, we will have a government of, by and for the people.We will make America very, very wealthy again. So necessary. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And, yes, we will make America great again. Thank you very much. God bless you. Thanks you. November 8th. Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Ohio. Thank you.Thank you very much. Wow, this is a wonderful crowd at this time, this is beautiful. A lot of people coming in from outside. So they'll just come in. Should we wait? Should we wait?We'll start, right?OK. It's great to be back into Hampshire, really. This is a state and special place. You know, this is where I had my first victory, we do know that, right? Right?It's such a -- I mean it's a special place, it really is. And you know what really amaze me when I came here and I got to know so many people, so many are in the room, so many great friends, and they said the biggest single problem they have up here is heroin. And I said how does heroin work with these beautiful lakes and trees and all of the beautiful, it doesn't, but it's the single biggest problem. And I said that if I win, I get the nomination and I win, we'll going to build that wall and we're going to stop that heroin from pouring in.And we're going to stop the poison of the youth. We're going to build the wall, believe me.We are going to build the wall but we're going to stop the poison from pouring in and destroying our youth and plenty of other people. And we're going to work on those people that got addicted and are addicted. And I'll tell you what, we're going to do a real job for the state of New Hampshire. And I owe something very special because again, this was my first victory and this is where it all started, so just remember.Look at how many people are here, look at what happened recently. Hillary Clinton, Bernie Sanders had very few people at their rally yesterday and that's because they don't like Hillary, and Bernie sold out to the devil. You know if Bernie -- if Bernie had made his deal and just done something where maybe he did nothing and just run away, he would have been a legendary character, he would have been a legendary political figure. But the deal he made with Hillary was not the right thing and it wasn't representative of what he should have done to his people and we're going to have a lot of Bernie's people supporting us especially because of my views on trade.We're going to have a lot of Bernie people but he should never have made the deal. And I'll beg you, he waste, he didn't make that deal, that was not the right deal for him to make. The people of New Hampshire and everywhere else don't care about Bernie anymore because now, they're looking to the future and the future is going to be something special. I love the people of New Hampshire and we're going to fulfill every single wish, every single promise, we're going to do something very, very significant for you. You're strong, you're independent and you are free. We're going to work very hard together over the next 40 days, can you believe it, 40 days, this started June 16th to New York City and here we are. And we're going to win the state, we're going to win back the White House, we're going to make America great again.We're going to take on the special interest, the lobbyist and the corrupt corporate media that have rigged this system against everyday Americans and they've rigged it for a long time. We're going to create millions of new jobs and we really need them, we need jobs. People have given up looking for jobs. We're going to create trillions of dollars and new wealth for our communities and rising wages for every worker in America. We're going to create a new government that serves you and your family and your country. We're going to end the Clinton corruption and restore...I mean did you see what happened yesterday? Did you see what happened yesterday? With the Director of the FBI talking about the email s?I don't think I've ever seen a thing like that, it's an embarrassment. I don't think I've ever seen a thing like that in my life and it really is a sad -- it was a sad, sad -- honestly, it's a sad time for the United States. It's a very, very sad time. And yesterday was a sad, a very sad day. Let's see what happens. I think -- I actually believe because of what happened yesterday, I think that whole thing has a long way to go. So we're going to see what happens.Hillary -- right? I mean is it incredible? Hillary Clinton is an insider fighting only for herself and for her donors. I'm an outsider fighting for you. Everything...Everything you need to know about Hillary Clinton, sometimes referred to as Crooked Hillary, can be understood with a simple but very important phrase, "Follow the money."The large corporations who support terrible trade deals, offshore jobs, they take these jobs, they offshore the jobs, they're donating to Hillary Clinton. It's called, follow the money. The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class, they're donating to Hillary Clinton, follow the money. The wealthy donors want to shutdown American energy, they're donating to Hillary Clinton, follow the money. The special interests who want to open borders are donating to Hillary Clinton, again just follow the money.In her campaign for president, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million in contributions from Wall Street and hedge funds. She and Bill were paid $150 million for speeches since Bill left the Oval office, and she doesn't speak well, figure that one. In fact they had a very small group of people which you here yesterday, very small crowds, very, very sad.Hundred million dollars, I don't think so folks, what's going on? The same groups paying Bill and Hillary for the speeches were lobbying the federal government. Twenty-two groups paying Bill Clinton for speeches lobbying the state department while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State favors and access were granted to those who wrote checks. She put the office of Secretary of State up for sale. And if she ever got the chance, she put the Oval office up for sale too.She deleted and bleached 33,000 emails after a congressional subpoena was issued. After -- think of it, after she gets a subpoena -- she gets a subpoena, she sees the subpoena, she then gets rid of 33,000 emails on top of a lot of other things. If you did that in your civilian life, you would have problems for the rest of your life.Thirteen phones missing, several destroyed with a hammer. Who in this room has destroyed their phone with a hammer, anybody? Anybody? Oh, there is one person. What business is that person in I want to find out? Yes. Well, Benghazi is a horrible thing. You saw what happened about taking 5th amendment and her ring leader's getting immunity deals will call them really the FBI immunity five. Nobody has ever seen?They gave so much immunity, there was nobody left to talk too. There was nobody left except Hillary. They probably gave her immunity too. Do you think Hillary got immunity? Yeah, she got the immunity. She had something.You know, when you think of it, she did so much worse than anybody else. People that did a tiny fraction of what she did, their lives have been destroyed and here she is running for president. It's a dishonestly, it's a disgrace. Foreign enemies with easy access to hack her server and they did lies to congress under a -- about turning over her work related emails. Remember she said on her emails, it was about yoga classes and it was about a wedding, 33,000 yoga, wedding.She and her financial backers will say anything, do anything lie about anything to keep their grip on power, to keep their control over this country. The American people have had it with years and decades of Clinton corruption and scandals, corruption and scandals.And impeachment for lying -- impeachment for lying. Remember that, impeach. They're tired of the lies, they're tired of the tribunal politics, they're tired of being talked down too, look down upon and treated like second class citizens and they're phenomenal people. You are phenomenal people. But Clintons are disordered pass, we will be very bright and clean future.While our campaign outlines big changes and bold solutions to make your life better, the Clinton campaign focuses only on small and petty destructions. This will be the year the American people say, finally, enough is enough. It's gonna start with New Hampshire.Hillary Clinton has been a disaster for so many communities but especially for African-American communities. I don't think African- Americans are going to come out and vote for Clinton. They're too smart and they know they are just being used by her and her campaign.They also know that she'll do nothing for them once the election is over, she never does and that will never ever change. Many of them will never forget her calling young African-American men super predators. Not nice. Same thing goes for Hispanic voters and they are tired of being used by people like Hillary Clinton that have no intention of doing anything for them once the election is over.A Trump administration will bring prosperity to all of the people of our great country.We'll bring prosperity. Look at what happened to your jobs. Look at what happened to your jobs. Look at what happened to all of those companies that left and went to Mexico and other places and you are probably the number one group of people that were affected if you think about it and the whole country.My economic agenda can be summed up with three very beautiful words, jobs, jobs, jobs. We're going to pass the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan and we're going to lower.That's right. And remember she's raising taxes substantially. And we're going to lower the business rate from 35 percent all the way down to 15 percent making America into a magnet for new jobs and growth.Every wasteful and unnecessary regulation will be eliminated along with every illegal executive order. We will unleash the power of American energy, we're going and we're sitting, right now, sitting on $50 trillion of untapped energy reserves and we're going to put that wealth into the pockets of the American people.And we're going to start reducing debt. Common core will be ended and disadvantage...And disadvantage children will be allow to attend the school of their choice, choice, big word, choice. Very important word. The catastrophe known as Obamacare will be repealed and replaced.And it's dying of its own volition anyway. You see what's happening, it's dying. And the disastrous trade deals like NAFTA that have caused so much pain in New Hemisphere will be renegotiated and I mean renegotiated for your benefit not to the benefit of Mexico, we're going to either change it or we'll start all over again folks and it will be a big, big difference believe me.NAFTA was signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Crooked Hillary and your state has lost one and three manufactory jobs since it was approved, it's a catastrophe. It's the worst trade deal ever negotiated and ever made -- not only in the United States, probably anywhere in the world. There's never been a deal like this. You've lost one and four jobs, think of it, since China entered the World Trade Organization so you lost one and four -- this another deal with the Clintons.And Hillary Clinton has been on the wrong side of every major trade deal in her career, and if that she gets the chance -- and this is a 100 percent -- she would approve to Transpacific Partnership which will destroy so much more of your manufacturing in the state.Hillary Clinton is merely a vessel for the special interest trying to script this contrive its wealth, its jobs and its status as a sovereign nation. Remember she called TPP the goal standard. And then during the debate the night where every single online poll said, we won -- which is great -- every single online poll.And during the debate the other night, she was saying, no, she never said that she said it, I mean she said it and then I had to put up -- then I had to put up with the anchor and fight the anchor all the time on everything I said. What a rigged deal, I'll tell you where in such a rig sits -- it is terrible. What's going on in this country is so sad but it will change. Remember November 8th, November 8th.She called it the goal standard, it's the goal standard for destroying wealth and jobs. She's a globalist who has made a career of taking jobs from our country and giving them to other countries. I'm not running to be president of the world, I'm running to be president of the United States of America and we're going to do a great job.From now on it's going to be America First, America First.Have you ever wondered why it's that old things that the American people want, they never seem to happened. Things they want just don't happen. Just thing about it, for how many years have the American people asked for a tax code to be fixed or for infrastructure to be repaired. We've been talking about this for years or for the waste to be removed from our budget.For many years and how many have voters pleaded for secure borders, fair trade deals, just fair deals, we're going to make great deals by the way, we're going to make great deals, but just fair deals and quality schools that serve parents and students. All the things you've ever wanted for your country have been denied, they've been denied. The reason is very simple, it's because the financial interest who control our politics and our media don't want this changes to happen. The special interest control totally Hillary Clinton, look at the money. Somebody said she's spending on commercials in certain areas, 50 to one and we're tied or I'm leading.How do you do that? Fifty, think of it. Fifty commercials to every one I'm putting up, and we're tied, and I'm even leading in some of these areas. She's there chosen representative. She's been there for 30 years and has never done anything for you or your family. She's there for only one reason to protect their donors and collect their money.Our campaign is taken on big business, big media and big donors, we're taking them on for you. That's what we're doing. I didn't need to do this. Believe me, I built a great, great company, I didn't need to do this, we're going to straighten it out.We want you to have the future that you want and that you deserve. That includes very importantly keeping your family safe. New FBI statistics just out, show that homicide rose 15 percent last year in America's large cities and that is the biggest single year increase in 45 years. You don't hear these numbers, right? Nobody tells you. More than 3,000 people had been shot in Chicago since January, that wasn't a long time ago, 3,000 people. That's -- say it again.That's -- say it again.Yes we can. He goes, "Yes, we can."Boy. That can only happen in New Hampshire, right? Right?The fail politicians and the arrogant media don't want me to talk about the crime and the violence that's happening at this country. They just want me to go along with the status quo, well, I have news for the people trying to silence me and you and trying to silence all of us. We will never back down, we -- we -- we will never back down from fighting, we are going to save American lives and we're going to turn this whole big ship around and it's going to be turned around quickly.That also means keeping our nation safe from radical Islamic terrorism.Hillary Clinton doesn't say the words and certainly President Obama will never say the words. We'll also going to keep our country safe from drugs. New Hampshire has suffered so greatly from the heroin crisis and the drugs pouring across the border. The rate of heroin overdose has nearly quadrupled in the state. Once again, our politicians have tragically failed this country and its people and specially more than any place to state, I've never seen anything like it with what's happening with the drugs more so than other places and other places are disaster but we're going to turn it around, we're going to turn it around for New Hampshire.I'm going to stop the drugs from pouring across the border and that is a promise. The people getting rich of the rig system or the people throwing their money at Hillary Clinton. Our campaign is about breaking up the special interest monopoly in Washington D.C. We're trying to disrupt the collision between the wealthy donors, the large corporations and the media executives who are among the most honest people anywhere that I have met. They're all part of the same corrupt political establishment and they're not alone when Hillary Clinton slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable. You don't look deplorable to me, and you know, look irredeemable. I call you hardworking American patriots and together, we're going to save our country.Together, we can accomplish anything we want. We have a movement going on, it's a movement like they've never seen in this country. Some of the great pundits have said and they say it often, some of the pundits that don't even like me says the single greatest political phenomenon they have ever seen.We had in Florida the other night, we had 25,000 people. No matter where we go, we have rooms that have packed with unbelievable Americans. And I'll tell you what, come November 8th, I think the world is going to see something that's really going to be special.But that means you have to show up and vote.So if you're sick, you're not feeling well, it's like you just don't think you're even going to make it. And the doctor comes in and he looks at you and he says, you're right, you're not going to make it. We don't care, right? You have to get out of bed and you have to vote.You have to knock on doors, you have to pick up that phone, you have to campaign on the streets, spread the love then we have in this room to the people of our country. We're going to bring our system together, we're going to bring our country together, we're going to have unity, we're divided nation in so many different ways. We're divided nation.Just turn on your televisions at night and you'll see what a divided nation we are in this no reason for to beat the system and -- I will fix it. To beat the system, you have to lift up your voice, pound the pavement and get out that vote. Visit our website -- I always hate saying that because it's sounds so like boring. But that's the way it is, visit our website.You have 40 days until the election. You have 40 days to make every dream you ever dream to your country come true. Do not let this opportunity slip away. I don't believe were ever going to have this opportunity again. This is it. This is it. You will never going to have this opportunity again. You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten men, woman and child in this nation. There are many. The arrogance of Washington D.C. will soon come face-to-face with the righteous verdict of the American voter on November 8th.You know that, you know it.On November 8th, we're going to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and bigger -- oh you know that, right? You know. You know it. America will be back, I promise, bigger and better and stronger than ever before. Bigger and better and stronger. Here are just some of the things -- and these are great things -- that will happen for your country. We're going to lower your taxes, she is going to raise your taxes. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation that are strangling your businesses, she's going to add more regulation. We're going to repeal and replace job killing Obamacare. We're going to make childcare more affordable and available to the families and to the mothers, we need help.Childcare, something that my daughter Ivanka feels very strongly about. So do I. We're going to bring back our manufacturing jobs which have been ripped away from us by incompetent politicians. We're going to keep radical Islamic terrorist out of our country.Did you see the other day where they were going to deport 800 people and they made a slight mistake. Instead of deporting these 800 people, they made the 800 people citizens of the United States.And they want to say, well, that's OK, you can change it around can't you, if you made a mistake. And they said, that might not be constitutional. Can you believe this, what's going on? And the mistake also was they think it wasn't really 800 people. It was 1800 people.This is like the $400 million in cash that we gave to Iran, 400 -- but this is in cash. We gave it to Iran as part of one of the worse deals I've ever seen in the history of -- in my life, I'd never seen anything like it. But as part, we gave them $400 million in cash but that turned out to be wrong also, it is $1.7 billion in cash.You know what, $1.7 billion in cash is I think would be starting around here will go up to ceiling. Who can authorize this? Who would be so stupid to authorize that? You're right. We're going to save the second amendment which is under siege.We are going to support the man and women of law enforcement.We're going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the constitution of the United States.We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, tunnels, highways, airports, schools and hospital. American cars will travel the roads. American planes will soar the skies and American ships will patrol the seas. American steel will send sky scrapers, new beautiful skies scrapers into the clouds. American hands, hands, hands will rebuild -- will rebuild this nation. And American energy harvested from American sources will power this nation. American workers will be hired to do the job not workers from other countries. We will put new American steel into the spine of the United States.I will fight for every neglected part of this nation and I will fight to bring us all together as Americans. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.It's time to break with the bitter failures of the past of which we have many and to embrace a new inclusive and prosperous American future. And I say it all the time, we don't win anymore. We don't win. When was the last time you see us have a win? When do we have companies moving into our country? We don't have it. Just look at New England, look at Ohio, look at all of -- look at Pennsylvania, look at what's happened. Now, we're going to turn things around, folks.We're going to start winning again. We're going to win so much if you people are going to be angry at me. You're going to say, Mr. President you're winning too much. We're not used to it, we cannot take it anymore. Please stop winning. And you know what I'm going to say? Sorry, folks, we have a lot of ground to capture.Once more we will have a government of by and for the people. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. And we will make America great again. Thank you all very much. Thank you.Thank you. God bless you everybody. God bless you.Wow. Wow. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. It is so great to be back in Michigan.A state I've come to know and love during this campaign. You know, we won Michigan, and that was a great, big, fat, beautiful victory. You know that right?And I've been talking about Michigan for a long time. We can't let them take your car industry out or your industry out of your state any longer. Not going to happen.I'm going to fight so hard for all of you, and I'm going to bring back the jobs that have been stripped away from you and from our country.In 39 days, 39 days, can you imagine? This started off -- we're a long ways away. And some people didn't give us a good chance. They said, Mr. Trump, the other day one of the biggest people in that business, the very dishonest press business...They said, Mr. Trump, when you started off, you have to tell me the truth. Did you really think you'd be here? I said, what the hell do you think I'm doing this for? Right?No, we expected to be here. And we're all here together. It's a movement. And believe me, we're all here together. We're going to take our country back.We're going to win the state of Michigan. We're going to win the White House. And it's going to be an awfully good November 8th. That evening is going to be a celebration.We're going to take on the special interests, the lobbyists, and the powerful politicians that have stolen your jobs through theft and incompetence. They've stolen your wealth. They've taken your middle class. We're going to take on the arrogant, corrupt corporate media that have enabled the global theft of American prosperity.A theft that has left behind crumbling schools, roads, bridges, and a totally depleted military. We have the greatest people in the world in our military. We're going to rebuild our military. This is when we need it.It's time, by the way, to rebuild Detroit. We're going to rebuild Detroit. It's time to rebuild Michigan and we're not letting them take your jobs out of Michigan any longer.And it's time to rebuild the United States of America. We're going to do it. Our country is going to be greater than ever before. We're going to be the smart country again.Hillary Clinton has made a living raking in donations from special interests that have raided our factories and ripped the jobs right out of Michigan and every other state.That's how she gets rich, by taking your jobs and your money away from you and away from your state.That's why Hillary Clinton, if she ever got the chance, would 100 percent approve the Transpacific Partnership.The deal she lied about the other night, when I said she called it the gold standard. She said no. Guess what? She called it the gold standard. And Lester Holt didn't correct her. I wonder why.The Transpacific Partnership will economically devastate Michigan, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and so many other states all across this country. It will be devastating also for Ohio. Hillary Clinton's donors want the TPP, and their wish will be her command. That's what it is.The special interests pay her for speeches. And she's not a good speaker. Not a good speaker. They pay her a lot of money. You know, we have thousands of people here today. There are thousands and thousands of people outside trying to get in. Thousands.And they're coming. And, in fact, I was going to ask you, should we hold it up for a couple of hours, let everyone pour in? You know, they're all checked. The answer is no, right? Thank you. No, they'll get in. They pay her foundation. They pay her husband. In return, they get your jobs. Like I've been saying all week, when it comes to Hillary Clinton, all you have to do is remember these words: Follow the money. That's good.That's become very popular, I will say. Hillary Clinton praised or pushed TPP on 45 separate occasions. Her close associate and confidante, Governor Terry McAuliffe, said she'd pass it, don't worry. Her husband talks it up. Everyone knows she's for it, because she doesn't believe in protecting American jobs or American sovereignty. She doesn't believe it.Hillary Clinton only believes in protecting her special interests and her donors. Of the 262 companies that lobbied for the passage of TPP, 82, or nearly 1 in 3, donated between $21 million and $67 million to the Clinton Foundation. Think about it.Nine companies that lobbied for the passage of TPP paid Hillary Clinton $2.7 million for paid speeches. Who would want to hear Hillary Clinton's peak and pay her $200,000, $300,000, $400,000, $500,000? Who? You think so?You know, so we're going to have $20,000 people here easy, including outside much more than that. If she came here tomorrow, if she got 500 people, seriously, I think it would be a shock. Right? It would be a shock.Three TPP member countries gave between $6 million and $15 million. Think of that. At least four lobbyists who are actively lobbying for TPP passage have raised more than $800,000 for her campaign. On November 8th, we are going to end Clinton corruption. We've had enough.And we're going to do something that has been a long, long time in coming. We are going to put America First. We are going to put America First.Hillary Clinton is an insider fighting only for herself and for her donors. I'm an outsider fighting for you. We have a movement like they've never seen in this country before. The corrupt media, which is totally corrupt -- these people back there, totally corrupt...Working along with the political establishment and the establishment is panicking, because they know this is awfully tough to stop what's happening right now, folks. Awfully tough.The news anchors and the donors and the lobbyists who are used to getting their way are trying to do everything they can to help Crooked Hillary Clinton and cling to their power and their prestige and their money. The arrogant political class doesn't believe in protecting jobs and wages for Americans.You know, we have many people in the audience -- and all over the country -- that made more money in real wages 18 and 20 years ago than they're making now. And now because of Obamacare and other reasons, they're being forced to work two jobs, sometimes three jobs. So they're getting older. They're working harder. And they're being paid less. Not good.The only thing I can say is that I'm getting older and I'm working harder, also, OK? So...I'm putting myself in your category. It's true.Thank you. Oh, that's so true, though, isn't it? The special interests don't believe in secure borders and strong walls. The Washington and Wall Street insiders don't believe in hiring more police, producing more American energy, or giving school choice to poor children trapped in failing schools. And we are, by the way, going to end Common Core and bring education local.For decades, we've talked about the corruption and incompetence and failures of our leaders. In 2016 -- it's a long awaited chance to deliver the change that you've been waiting for, for a long time, and to hold our politicians accountable. If you do this one simple thing, you can deliver justice for every single person who has been wronged by the system. On November 8th, show up and vote.Show up and vote, folks. Show up and vote. If you are so sick, if you get the worst report you could possibly get for the doctor, if the doctor says, "I'm sorry, Jim, I'm sorry, Alice, I'm sorry, whoever it is, you're not going to make it, you're not going to make it, you'll be gone by the end of November, " I don't give a damn. Show up and vote on November 8th.No, we don't want that to happen. We don't want that to happen. When you cast that ballot, just picture a Wall Street boardroom filled with the special interests who have been bleeding your country and your city and every place else, and imagine the look on their faces when you tell them you're fired. Fired.And we're going to tell millions and millions of unemployed Americans my favorite two words: You're hired.When we get it going, folks, millions of jobs are going to come pouring back into our country. We're going to reverse the trend. Right now, we have a superhighway. It goes in one direction: Out of our country. Our jobs are gone. Our money's gone. Our wealth is gone. We owe $20 trillion. Obama has doubled the debt, doubled it, in his term in office, $20 trillion.And we haven't done anything. Our roads are bad. Our schools are bad. Our airports are bad. Our hospitals are bad. Our bridges, our tunnels, they're all falling apart. You know, it's one thing if we would have spent the money and fixed our country. We've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East. We could have rebuilt our country twice.Now the media doesn't want to talk about Hillary Clinton and her corruption. So we're going to spell it out for them today.The large corporations who support terrible trade deals that ship your jobs overseas and out of our country, they're donating to Hillary Clinton. Follow the money. The Wall Street investors who have rigged the regulations against the middle class, they're donating to Hillary Clinton. Follow the money.The wealthy donors who want to shut down American energy, they're donating to Hillary Clinton. Follow the money. The special interests who want open borders are donating to Hillary Clinton. Definitely follow the money.In her campaign for president, Hillary Clinton has received $100 million in contributions from Wall Street and hedge funds. And by the way...By the way, I'm spending a lot of money on my campaign. And why isn't she spending some money on hers? I'm spending $100 million. You know what I'm spending? I think I'll be over $100 million.But you know what's nice? When they call me and they say, "Mr. President, you have to do this, you have to do that, " I'll say, "I don't have to do anything for anybody!"So many things are done adverse to the country, and I've spent a tremendous -- tens and tens of millions of dollars on the primaries and now on the general election. And I'm very proud to have done it, I will tell you. And I don't know to this extent if it's ever been done before. Certainly not recently. But I'm very proud to have done it, because we're going to maintain our independence.We have millions and millions of dollars coming in from small donors, average -- like $61 a shot. And that's really helping to fund the campaign, also. But these are people who are investing in our country. These are great, great people. They're investing in our country.So Hillary and Bill were paid $150 million for speeches since Bill Clinton left the Oval Office, $150 million.Did they get their money's worth? Well, maybe they did. Not from the speech. The same groups are paying Bill and Hillary for their speeches, these were the groups that were lobbying in many cases the federal government. I'm shocked.Twenty-two groups paid Bill Clinton for speeches, lobbied the State Department, while Hillary was Secretary of State. Shocking. Favors and access were granted to those who wrote checks. She put the office of Secretary of State up for sale and she never, ever got the chance, and she will get the chance if we don't get out to vote. She will get the chance. And we can't let that happen. Because if she gets the chance, she will put the Oval Office up for sale like she always does.Remember, folks, she's been doing this for 30 years and she -- she just doesn't produce. She deleted and bleached 33,000 emails after a congressional subpoena. You can't do that.After the subpoena. How about this? You get a federal subpoena, you get a subpoena from Congress, I mean, how high can it get? To give your emails, to give your papers, to give everything. It isn't before you get the subpoena. This is after you get the subpoena. And after you get the subpoena, you delete and bleach, a process nobody ever heard of -- who heard of that in this room? Did anybody ever hear of it? They call it bleaching. They call it acid washing. And a lot of people don't do it, because it's supposed to be very expensive. But nobody heard of it. So she gets the subpoena. She doesn't like it. She says, in my opinion, or somebody does, but she says, "Delete all of my emails! Delete them!" And then she said, and by the way, is there another process where they can never find them? Yes, ma 'am, we can bleach them. Then bleach them. Because I don't want anybody to see the wedding and the yoga classes, right?She said there were wedding and yoga class tweets. I give five for the wedding and three for the yoga class, but what about the rest? In addition, she got rid of 13 phones that were missing or gone. And several were destroyed by a hammer. Whoever destroyed your phone with a hammer? Is there anybody?There's one person -- what business are you in?Foreign enemies with easy access to hack -- and, believe me, she's vulnerable, and she makes us vulnerable, because foreign enemies -- you look at her server, and they're probably hacking her all over the place. Unfortunately, maybe we'll find out at a later date. Lies to Congress under oath. She lies to Congress. How many times did she lie to Congress? And then the media protects her, and they don't talk about that.And if I'm a little bit off, "Trump lies, lies." She lied to Congress so many times.And how about her people and representatives taking the Fifth Amendment and her ringleaders getting immunity deals, five deals, five? Five immunity deals. We call them now the FBI immunity five.So listen to this. Listen to this. Here's my question for Hillary Clinton. Can you promise that not one of the five people who were granted criminal immunity will ever be allowed to serve in a Clinton administration if that ever happens? Oh, would that be bad.Let's see what happens. And here's the demand I'm making today to President Obama.Mr. President, will you pledge not to issue a pardon to Hillary Clinton and her coconspirators for their many crimes against our country and against society itself? Will you make that pledge?No one is above the law. Clinton and her cronies will say anything, do anything, lie about anything to keep their grip on power, to keep their control over our country. Remember the Clinton pardon of fugitive -- and this was a serious fugitive -- Marc Rich in exchange for unknown and undisclosed amounts of money? You remember that? Marc Rich. Famous Marc Rich. People couldn't believe it.The American people have had it with years or decades of Clinton corruption and scandals. Always the same thing. Whitewater, the cattle. Remember the cattle? I think she had the greatest return on a cattle investment in the history of the cattle world. Guys that did it all their lives, they said, wow, she must know a lot about cattle.The people of this country are tired of the lies. They're tired of trivial politics. They're tired of being talked down to, looked down upon, and treated like second-class citizens.This will finally be the year that the American people say, "Enough is enough."Hillary Clinton has been a disaster for so many communities, but especially for the African-American communities. I don't think African-Americans are going to come out and vote for Clinton. They're too smart, and they know they are being used. They're tired of them.They also know from tremendous past experience that she'll do nothing for them once the election is over. She never does, and that will never change.Many of them will not forget her calling young African-American men super predators.Super predator. To the African-American community, let me ask you this question. Are you better off than you were eight years ago? No. If not, why not give Donald Trump a chance? I will fix it.I will bring back jobs. I'll bring back your education, which is a total disaster in the inner cities. And I'm going to bring back safe neighborhoods.If you keep voting for the same people, you will keep getting the exact same results. Look at what the Democrats have done to Detroit. Half of Detroit residents are unable to work. Nearly 40 percent of the city lives in poverty. It's the second-most dangerous city in America according to the FBI. This is the legacy of the policies embraced by Crooked Hillary Clinton. A Trump administration will bring prosperity to all of our people. My economic agenda can be summed up with three very beautiful words: Jobs, jobs, jobs. We're bringing our jobs back.We're going to pass the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes. Every wasteful and unnecessary regulation will be immediately eliminated. They're choking our businesses and stopping our jobs.We will unleash the power of American energy. The catastrophe known as Obamacare will be repealed and replaced.And the disastrous trade deals, like NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, that have caused so much pain in Michigan and Ohio and Pennsylvania and everywhere in this country will be renegotiated and we'll be bring back your auto manufacturing business like you've never, ever seen it before.Michigan has lost more than 1 in 3 of its manufacturing jobs since the twin disasters of NAFTA and China's entrance into the WTO, another Bill Clinton disaster. Before NAFTA went into effect, there were 280,000 autoworkers in Michigan. Today, that number is only 160,000, and believe me, it's going down and going down fast. And after the election, if somebody else should win, you're going to see really big reductions in those numbers. I can promise you that, because that's what they're going to do.And I've been talking about Michigan. I was honored here years ago -- and we set the all-time record years ago, long before I ever thought I was going to be doing this -- whoever thought I was going to run for office? I was going to be a politician. Can't believe -- somebody said, Donald, you're a politician. I said, please, I don't want to hear that. But whoever thought?But long before I thought about doing this, I was honored in Michigan, and I talked about your car industries moving out. And had I run for office then and won, you would have double and triple the number of workers in your car industry, your automobile industry. I'll guarantee you that. But we'll get them back anyway.Ford just announced that it's moving its small car production to Mexico.So it used to be that the cars were made in Flint and you couldn't drink the water in Mexico. Today, the cars are made in Mexico and you can't drink the water in Flint.That's what's happened to our country. Hillary Clinton also gave us the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, which has been a disaster. It's cost our country another 100,000 jobs. And Hillary opposed the Korea deal when she was running for president in 2007. She campaigned right here in Michigan and said the Korean deal will hurt the United States auto industry, increase our trade deficit, cost us good middle-class jobs, and make America less competitive.She pledged to you to reject the deal, but she lied, as always. She lied.Once installed as Secretary of State, she supported it and called it a cutting-edge transaction.Same thing's going to happen with TPP. Don't give her the chance, folks. You're going to lose all your jobs. Don't forget, when she ran for the Senate in New York state, she said she was going to bring back jobs in upstate New York. It was a total lie. We lost more and more jobs, and today it's a total disaster.She rammed it through as she always tries to do. Her donors were happy. They were all extremely friendly to her. They helped her out. Everybody was satisfied except for the workers of our country. We lost our jobs.The U.S. trade deficit with Korea for the top 10 products that Michigan exports to Korea grew 54 percent as exports fell and imports rose. So it was an exact opposite of what she said. And she probably knew it, although I personally think she's incompetent. She might not have known it.Don't forget, she has a distinction. She failed her bar exam in Washington, D.C. Remember that. That's a big distinction.This is what Hillary Clinton did for your state. According to the Economic Policy Institute, Michigan ranks first for jobs lost as a share of workforce due to the trade deficit with TPP members. OK?Just imagine how many more jobs will be lost if the TPP actually gets approved, as Hillary Clinton wants to make sure it happens. Hillary Clinton is merely a vessel for the special interests trying to strip this country of its wealth, its jobs, and its status as a sovereign nation.She even supports the disastrous surrender of America's control of the Internet, which is happening now.What a bunch of people we have representing us. What a bunch of people. See how nice I'm doing? You know? A year ago, I would have said something vicious and they would have said, "Donald Trump uses foul language." What a group we have.How about where Obama on the worst deal that I've ever seen negotiated, the Iran deal, started by Hillary Clinton, by the way, which will give them nuclear weapons in less than 10 years, and it's an easy path, but how about where he gave them $400 million in cash?And then it turned out to be wrong. It was $1.7 billion in cash. Can you believe it? You know what that is? It's take that corner of the room and stack the cash to the ceiling. Nobody's seen that. Has anybody ever seen $1.7 billion in cash? What a bunch of losers we have.Hillary Clinton's website says she supports the decision to give away the Internet to a global community of stakeholders. Isn't that nice? We come up with the Internet, and they want to give it away. Isn't that wonderful? Someone needs to inform Hillary Clinton it's not the job of our leaders to represent the global community.It's the job of our leaders to represent American citizens.We invent the Internet. Let's just give it away, folks. Let's just give it away. But it really is -- honestly, is it hard to believe or what? Forget about running for office. Forget about voting. Forget about politics. Can you believe the things they do? $400 million, oh, turns out to be $1.7 billion, in cash. The Internet.How about last week where they were going to deport 800 people? Now they have a reason they were going to deport them. Right? So they were going to deport 800 people. And guess what? Something went wrong. And instead of deporting them, they became citizens of the United States of America.Only in America. Don King, who supported me, Big Don, he goes, only in America can that happen. But they were wrong. But there was a mistake. There was a mistake. It turned out that the 800 person number was wrong. It looks like it's now going to be close to 1,800.And then I said, OK, they made a big mistake. Let's turn it around and let's deport them. And they said, but that wouldn't be constitutional. Can you believe these people? Can you? Can you believe these people?America losing control of the Internet to foreign entities is just one more way Obama-Clinton have sold out the citizens of this country. Somebody's benefiting by that deal, because nobody can be so stupid to make a deal like that. Somebody is benefiting by that deal.Hillary Clinton is a globalist who will never protect the freedom and jobs of the American people. I'm not running to be president of the world. I'm running to be president of the United States of America.Have you ever wondered why it is that all things that the American people want never, ever seem to happen? The reason is simple. It's because the financial interests who control our politics and our media, which is one of the most dishonest groups of people ever in this country...Like, for instance, look at this massive crowd. They don't show the crowd, folks. I go home. My wife said, oh, were there many people? I say thousands. She goes, really? I didn't see them. I didn't see them. They don't show them.Hey, cameras, why don't you span the room and show the room, cameras? Span the room.They won't do it. They won't do it. They never do it. They never do it. They're dishonest people.Dishonest people. I remember during the primaries -- I remember during the primaries when Bernie Sanders was doing well, he made a terrible deal. He sold out to the devil, you know that? And now people don't even want to show up for Bernie. He sold out. He should have never made that deal. He should have gone down. He would have been an American hero. He sold out to Hillary Clinton. He sold out to the devil, and his people don't want anything to do with him.He had an event the other day. Almost nobody showed up. But I remember when he was hot and he was getting big crowds. And I had an event at the same time a little different location. I had 17,000 people. He had 3,000 people. And the media reported it. And they said, Donald Trump had a rally tonight. And then he started falling asleep, 17,000.Then they reported on Bernie Sanders. Bernie Sanders had a massive crowd of 3,000 people tonight, 3,000 people. You know what 3,000 people is? It's like a little piece of that corner of the room.So for him -- it's true. So for crazy Bernie, they had a little -- for me, they don't want to report it. But that's OK, because we understand what's happening. Just as long as you know how dishonest these people are. And boy were they dishonest on the debate. Man. They were -- there's never been dishonesty.And by the way, by the way, it was just announced by the commission that holds the debate that Donald Trump's microphone was defective, as I've been saying.I mean, working that microphone was a hell of a lot more difficult than working Crooked Hillary Clinton. That I can tell you. They just announced -- it just came out a little while ago, that the microphone in the audience, the big room, was defective. And it was not -- it was difficult.And, you know, when you have a situation like that, and you know it's bad, and you think you have 100 million people watching, what do you do, stop the show? Please fix it. It was bad. I wonder why it was bad. Think of that. I wonder why it was bad. It was so bad.Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and has never done anything for you or your family, and she never will. Just look how badly she messed up the Iran deal. And just today, we learned that on the same day as the hostages were released, the United States signed an agreement lifting sanctions on two Iranian banks involved in financing Iran's missile program.And you know where they want those missiles to eventually land, don't you, folks? Huh? Right here. Right here. Right here in this country. That's where they want them to land. And they're taunting us with the boats. They're taunting us with the 10 sailors they captured. They're taunting us by flying right next to our airplanes.So we give them all this money, $150 billion back. We give them the deal of a lifetime. And instead of saying thank you, they feel emboldened. That won't happen with us, folks.So just think of what I said before, the way she failed upstate New York, the way she promised all those jobs that never happened. Our campaign is taking on big business. We're taking on big media. And it's not pleasant. I have never, ever in my life received stories like I receive now. I mean, it is called the greatest pile-on in the history of America. Even journalists that don't like me say it's the craziest thing they've ever seen. But I'm doing it -- I'm doing it everybody. Who knows? I'm doing it for everybody. Doing it for you.Our campaign is about breaking up the special interest monopoly in Washington, D.C. We're trying to disrupt the collusion between the wealthy donors, the large corporations, and the media executives. They're all part of the same corrupt political establishment. And they nod along when Hillary Clinton slanders you as deplorable and irredeemable. You're deplorable and irredeemable, she says.See, she doesn't know you like I know you. You are the smartest people. We're the strongest people. We're the most loyal people ever to be involved in a campaign.I call you hardworking American patriots. And together, we are going to save this country. And we're not going to have a second chance, folks. If we don't do it on November 8th, it's not going to happen. I don't believe -- if we have to have Barack Obama but worse for four more years, I honestly believe our country can never recovery.And remember, Supreme Court judges. Remember that. But together, we can accomplish anything we want. But that means you need to show up on November 8th. We have 39 days until the election. You have 39 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true. Do not let this opportunity slip away. Get out and vote and make sure everything is on the up-and-up.Make sure everything is on the up-and-up. You've been reading the same stories as I've been reading. So go to your place and vote and go pick some other place and go sit there with your friends and make sure it's on the up-and-up.Because you know what? That's a big, big problem in this country, and nobody wants to talk about it. Nobody has the guts to talk about it. So go and watch these polling places. Make sure it's on the up-and-up. Please.That would be one hell of a way to lose, I'll tell you right now. You have one magnificent chance to deliver justice. For every forgotten man, woman and child in this nation -- and there are a lot -- the arrogance of Washington, D.C., will soon come face-to-face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.November 8th, we're going to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever before.In summing up, here are just some of the great things that will happen for your country. We're going to lower your taxes substantially. She's going to raise your taxes.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation. She is going to add regulation. We're going to repeal and replace job- killing Obamacare. We're going to make childcare affordable. We're bringing childcare into the picture. My daughter, Ivanka, wants it, and I want it.We're going to bring manufacturing jobs -- we're going to bring those automobile jobs back to Michigan, and I mean back fast.We're going to eliminate Common Core. We're going to bring education local.We will end illegal immigration. We will keep...We will build the wall. And who's going to pay for the wall?One hundred percent. Mexico's going to pay for the wall. They just don't know it yet. But trust me, they're going to pay for it.We have such a trade deficit with Mexico. I was in Mexico. I really like the president. I love the country. I love the people in Mexico. I have so many Mexicans that work for me. They're friends of mine. These are great people. But their leaders are so much smarter than our leaders.We have a trade deficit that is massive with Mexico. The wall is a tiny fraction of what we're talking about. So when people say, how are they going to do it? I say look at the trade deficit. Look at the cost of the wall. And even the politicians that have no clue what's happening, they say, oh, now I get it.But they could never produce it. So we're going to have the wall. And we're going to stop drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth.We're going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.We are going to save the Second Amendment, which is under siege.We are going to take care of our inner cities, our African- American communities, our Hispanic communities. We're going to make them good again. We're going to make them safe again.We are going to support the men and women of law enforcement.And we're going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court of the United States who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.We will rebuild our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our highways. We will rebuild so beautifully our airports, our schools, and our hospitals. American cars made right here in Michigan will travel the roads. American planes will soar the skies. And American ships will patrol the sea.American steel will send new skyscrapers into the clouds. And we will take care of our steelworkers. And we will take care of our miners. We'll going to take care of our miners and our steelworkers.American hands will rebuild this nation. And American energy mined from American sources will power this nation again.American workers, many of you in this room, will be hired to do the job. And these will be great jobs. We will put new American steel into the spine of our country. I will fight for every neglected part of this nation, and I will fight to bring us all together as Americans.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.To the people of Michigan, I promise you this. You get out, and you vote on November 8th for Donald J. Trump for president, you'll be voting for yourselves, because our movement will be complete phase one. Phase two is we will make America wealthy and rich again. Got to do it.We will make America strong again.We will make America safe again.And we will make America great again.Thank you. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you.And those two gentlemen are amazing men and I want to thank them for being with us.You know, Pueblo's called "Home of the Heroes". Did you know that?Because of your proud tradition of military service. Pueblo's the home of four Medal of Honor recipients, and I just got the endorsement of 19, all together -- 19. So when you have 19, that's pretty good. But you have four, which is amazing.And as President Eisenhower said, "There must be something in the water " out here in Pueblo, because all of you guys turn out to be heroes. What's going on? What's going on? Is there something in the water? Give me some of that water.Colorado is home to six military bases. We're going to eliminate the defense sequester and rebuild our military. We're going to strengthen it; we're going to make it truly, truly strong again.Another great Colorado legacy is hunting and fishing.My sons know that very well; they're here all the time. We're going to conserve your land for the future generations and we're going to save your Second Amendment, which is under siege.We've got a lot of people in this room. This is very impressive. Thank you. Thank you. It's a great honor. It's a great honor. One other issue of such great importance in Colorado is energy. Crooked Hillary Clinton wants to shut down the mines, and shut down shale, and shut down oil and natural gas, and we're going to end the war on American energy and we are going to put the miners back to work. They have to be put back to work.I've also made a centerpiece of my economic revitalization plan, the largest middle-class tax cut since Ronald Reagan and the largest regulatory reform in American history. We're going to do that.And Hillary Clinton is going to increase your taxes very, very substantially, and she
 admits it.At least she
 admits it.But that because I know how overtaxed and overregulated the working people and companies in this country are. A central issue I would like to address today is our broken tax code -- an issue of concern to all Americans. Along with securing our borders, rebuilding our military, keeping us safe from terrorism, redoing our trade deals and bringing back jobs -- and they're sort of one in the same.Fixing our broken tax code is one of the main reasons I'm running for President. I've been saying from the beginning of this campaign how ridiculous, complex and, yes, unfair the tax system is. It is an unfair system, and so complex that very few people understand it. Fortunately, I understand it.This is not the fault of the IRS, but the political class that is owned outright by the special interests and lobbyists, believe me. It's these politicians who wrote the tax code and who are constantly adding, revising and changing an already overcomplicated set of laws, all at the behest of their favorite donors and special interests who want certain provisions put in and they won't take no for an answer.It's thousands of pages long and almost no one understands it. The average American would need an army of accountants and lawyers to wade through -- and wade through it. Many so-called experts, due to their sheer size and complexity of the code, don't have a clue what these pages represent. These are experts -- they get payed and they don't even know what it represents.The unfairness of the tax laws is unbelievable. It's something I've been talking about for a long time, despite, frankly, being a big beneficiary of the laws. But I'm working for you now; I'm not working for Trump.Believe me.I understand the tax laws better than almost anyone, which is why I am one who can truly fix them. I understand it. I get it. And that is what I commit to do. We want fairness, we want money brought in, and we want money to be spent when it goes out because they spend our tax dollars so unfairly and unwisely; remember that.And, believe me, that makes a difference. As a major real estate developer in this country, and throughout the world, I face enormous taxes -- city taxes, state taxes, sales taxes, excise taxes, employee taxes, federal taxes, VAT taxes -- different countries.It's my job to minimize the overall tax burden to the greatest extent possible, which allows me to reinvest in neighborhoods, in workers, and build amazing properties which fuel tremendous growth in their communities, and always help our great providers of jobs, and we have to help our small businesses.What it's all about. It's what it's all about.The news media is now obsessed with an alleged tax filing from the 1990s, at the end of one of the most brutal economic downturns in our country's history, if you remember the early 90s. Other than, I would say, 1928, there was nothing even close. The conditions facing real estate developers in that early 90s period were almost as bad as the Great Depression of 1929, and far worse than the great recession of 2008 -- not even close.What had been a booming economy in the year of Ronald Reagan, changed dramatically, and the business landscape changed with it. Bank failures and collapse, the absolute, total destruction of the Savings and Loan industry, and the implosion of the retail market and real estate in general, something we've never seen anything like it.Many businesspeople, including many of my competitors and some of my friends, were not able to survive. Companies, jobs and opportunities were lost and lives were destroyed as tens of thousands of people were put out of work. Some of the biggest and strongest people and companies went absolutely bankrupt -- which I never did, by the way. Are you proud of me?I was able to use the tax laws of this country, and my business acumen, to dig out of the real estate mess -- you would call it a depression -- when few others were able to do what I did. And those most --I'm a star. Thank you; you are too.Oh, they were amazing times. In those most difficult times, when so many had their backs to the wall, I reached within myself and delivered for my company, my employees, my family, and the communities where my properties existed -- and I really delivered.Those who spend their lives within the confines of government work, and who know virtually nothing of business, fail to understand the skill, dedication, the sheer grit it takes for a company to climb out of an economic depression of the scale we had in the early 90s.People like my opponent, Hillary Clinton, whose only --Folks, let's win on November 8th, OK? Let's just win.Anyway, her only method of making money is by selling government favors and granting access to special interests, know nothing about how businesses succeed and grow. Hillary Clinton has never created a single job in her
 entire life. By the way, we have somebody who has -- where's Bernie Marcus? Where's Bernie? Bernie Marcus, founder of Home Depot.Go to Home Depot. He
 only created about -- hundreds of thousands. How many jobs has Home Depot produced right now, Bernie? How much?Millions -- millions. Bernie, that's a lot of jobs. A great guy, a great man, an unbelievable entrepreneur, and somebody that put a lot of people to work. And Home Depot is a terrific company. And thank you for being here, Bernie. Appreciated it. Thank you.They haven't added a single dollar of value -- people like Hillary -- to the American economy. Hillary Clinton hasn't made an honest dollar in her
 entire life.All she
 does is takes from you, takes from your country, and peddles influence to donors, special interests and foreign actors for astronomical dollars like you've never seen before. It's corruption of the highest order. You know it, I know it, she
 knows it, and plenty of other people know it, but they're not doing anything about it.While I made my money as a very successful private business person, following the law all the way, Hillary Clinton made her money as a corrupt public official, breaking the law, and putting her government office up for sale. And now she's running for President.By her
 own account, Hillary Clinton left the White House dead broke -- she
 said "dead broke".And then, remember? She
 became a Senator for New York; did nothing. Remember the jobs she
 was going to produce? She
 never produced them. And then she
 became Secretary of State. And, now, she
 and her
 husband have made more than $200 million without building a company or creating a single thing of value.During the early 90s, as companies went absolutely bust -- they were collapsing all over the place -- left and right -- the media and powers that be said "Donald Trump -- he
 could never, ever make it back." Oh, I remember those stories. We were all in -- how many people, then, were in trouble, like everybody was in trouble? But they said -- and they were so gleeful -- "he
 could never make it back."They said I had billions of dollars in borrowing, which is true -- and hundreds of millions of dollars in personal guarantees, which is true -- and no pathway out, which is false. That was a bad time. That was an ugly time.A lot of people -- you'll never hear from them again from that period. But I never had any doubts whatsoever; and, most importantly, I never, ever gave up or even thought about giving up.And when people make the mistake of underestimating me, that's when they are really in for their biggest surprise -- same thing with a lot of the people in this room. Just look at what happened in the primary? "Trump's running. Oh, don't worry about it. He
's the star of the Apprentice, he
 built a nice company -- don't worry." Just look at what happened. Our incredible movement is doing -- just take a look. This is a movement, folks -- a movement like they've never seen.What we've done is amazing. And now we have one person left -- Crooked Hillary. And we have to beat her
 on November 8th, and you have to get out and vote, and you have to get out and make calls, and you have to do -- and, jokingly, I like to say "If you're sick -- if you get the absolute worst prognosis from the doctor, and it looks like, maybe, you're not even going to make it, it doesn't make a damn bit of difference. Get up and vote on November 8th."With my knowledge, I knew that I would make a comeback, without question. I never had a doubt in my mind and, again, I don't know -- I don't even think of it as a comeback. It was just, like, you know, we had tough periods, good periods, tough periods. We just knew that things were going to be just fine. But that is why I'm here
 today.Thank you, darling.And I'm praying for you and I love you.Great people. Now I get the whole hero thing. Now I get it.But that is why I have left private business to go into public life. If you would have ever told me that I was going to be doing this -- now, had I known I was going to be doing this, I would have commenced with certain television interviews, radio interviews. I would have said things slightly differently.And I wouldn't have had a good a time in life and as much fun in life, but it would have made my life as a politician a little bit easier, right?And, you know, these people -- holier than thou. They never say anything around the breakfast room table, do they? They never -- they never do. Bill and Hillary never say anything like this around the -- can you imagine what they say? Well, they talk about deplorables and irredeemables, right?They talk about that. You're deplorable. You're irredeemable. I think irredeemable might be worse, if you think -- everyone talks about -- deplorable. These are the greatest people in this room, and many other rooms like it. We've seen hundreds of thousands of people. These are the greatest people.And, really, importantly, we're going to make it great for all of the people. It's not my people, or people that are voting for me. We're going to make it great for all of our people in this country.But I'm doing this, and I'm doing it for a very specific reason: because I understand our country is in very, very bad shape.That's all right. Sounds like a nice person.Oh, oh -- I thought that was the Commission on Presidential Debates that was working.I said "I didn't know they were here."You know, when they were playing with the mic -- back, forth -- I thought that was the Commission. Those -- that's a beautiful Commission. Let's see what happens on Sunday again.My biggest opponent was the microphone. And now our country is in need of a major comeback. It needs one now, just about more than ever. We owe $20 trillion in debt, doubled during Obama's period as president.Doubled. Think about it. But that's only part of the story. We have over $100 trillion in unfunded liabilities and we have a budget that's out of control with annual deficits.In addition, because of the incompetence of our leaders, we run massive trade deficits on an annual basis. I'll get Bernie to negotiate a couple of these trade deals. You'll find out. And we now have almost $800 billion a year in trade deficits. And you say to yourself "Who are these people negotiating our deals?"Our country is broke. It's broke. And the worst part is that, with all of the money we spend so foolishly all over the world -- stupidly all over the world -- we protect other countries with tremendous -- I mean, tremendous losses. And we want to protect countries, but they should pay us the proper amount. Why should we be losing money?But, think of it. With all of the money that we spend, and with $20 trillion in debt, and all of the things we do, and all of the talk, and all of the political nonsense, we have a decaying infrastructure, we have failing schools, we have rising crime, we have a depleted military -- our great people -- and a depleted military.We have planes that are so old, they go to airplane graveyards to take out parts. They go to museums to take out parts because they don't make the parts anymore.We have an open border. We have an economy that can't create full-time, high-paying jobs, because our jobs -- our great jobs -- many of them have been -- have been taken. And we will build the wall. Don't worry, we're going to build the wall.We're going to build the wall. We're going to build the wall. We're going to build the wall. We're going to build the wall, Mexico's going to pay for the wall. They don't know it yet, but they're going to pay for the wall.And you have a tremendous problem right here, but we're going to have drugs stop pouring into our country, destroying our youth, poisoning our people -- poisoning our people.We're a divided nation, and each week it seems we're getting more and more divided with race riots on our streets on a monthly basis. Now, somebody said don't call them race riots, but that's what they are. They're race riots. And it's happening more and more. You looked at Charlotte -- a great city where I have property. A great city.You look at different places our country -- St. Louis, Ferguson, Baltimore, Chicago. In Chicago, thousands of shootings -- thousands since January 1st. Four thousand shootings. Think of it. Since January?This is not the America that was handed down to us, and it's not the America that we want to leave to our children.And it's certainly not the America we want to pass down to our grandchildren. But this is the America we will have if we don't turn things around starting immediately. We don't have much time, folks. We don't have much time.And if we don't win this election, it will never happen again. This opportunity is never going to happen again. What I say is not lost on the American people because 70 percent of you believe our country is headed in the wrong direction.And I'm trying to figure out who the other 30 percent are. I want to meet them. We cannot have another four years of Barack Obama. And Hillary Clinton will be worse. She
 will be worse.We can turn our country around. But if we don't make a change in leadership right now, it'll never happen. The failed political establishment must go. It must go for the sake of your country, your future, and those you love the most.In the early 90s, the splashed the front pages with stories about how Donald Trump -- me -- they said I was finished. Everybody said that I was done. There were front page articles in the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, among many others. They were thrilled and delighted. And I'm still here. Can you believe these people? They must be going -- they're going crazy.Can you believe? The Wall Street Journal and the New York Times, they are going crazy. They say -- 1990s -- and now, here I am still. They're saying "Can we ever get rid of this guy?"But they were thrilled to write these negative stories. So they said I was finished. The only person who didn't think that I was in trouble was a guy named Donald J. Trump. I didn't think I was in trouble.I sort of didn't know what they were talking about. Does that make sense? Power of positive thinking, but I didn't know what they were talking about. I started my company with a small loan, and, as I grew, I borrowed money to grow the company.And -- big money from big banks. When the bottom fell out of the real estate market, I had this large amount of debt. And it stayed the same but the value of assets plummeted. So you have to learn. I was young and you have to learn. And I learned. And I worked really hard.But I knew how to use the tax code to rebuild my company when others didn't. I knew how to understand -- and I fully understood the banks and the bankers and how to deal with them. I knew a lot.But my understanding of the tax code gave me a tremendous advantage over those who didn't have a clue about it, including many of my competitors, who lost everything they had, never to be heard from again -- never -- they were never heard from again.Some people that I knew -- they were good, they were doing a good job -- never, ever to be heard from again. Now they're gone and I'm here and I'm ready to turn things around for our country.I'm going to do it.The early 90s was a very tough time for the world. But in tough times, you need very tough and very smart people. These are tough times for America. And, I will tell you, we need very tough and very smart leadership.Not people who tell you what you want to hear, but people who tell you what you need to hear. We must never allow corrupt, career politicians like the Clintons ever back into the White House again.These tough times were when I performed my very best. The economy and banks; they were collapsing. The government was a mess. But I enjoyed waking up every day to go to battle -- and that's what it was for three years. I had an expression in the early 90s: "Survive until '95 and you'll be OK."And then people copied it -- Survive until '95. I enjoyed getting up every morning to take on the financial establishment on behalf of my company, my employees, my family and myself, and win; and that's what we did. I won. I won and I kept on winning.Until this day, I kept on winning. All you have to do is ask all of the 17 people that we competed against and you'll ask them "How did Trump do?" They'll say "He
 won."But that's the thinking we need for our country. That's the thinking we need when we're negotiating trade deals, which are horrible; and military deals; and economic deals on behalf of the American people. We need great people negotiating our deals for us.We have the greatest negotiators and the greatest business people in the world, and we use political hacks to negotiate our deals. Not anymore we're not. Not anymore.Put me into the board room as your representatives and I promise I will deliver. Hillary Clinton is in it only for herself, her
 donors, and her
 special interests. I'm fighting for America.Many people -- many people have said over the years that I perform better under pressure than anyone they've ever seen. I've proven that over and over again. And that's what I do, and that's what we have to do right now because our country is under tremendous pressure.When the pressure is on; when the odds are stacked against me and you, because many of you people are the same way. When people say "It can't be done", that's when we just get started. We're going to change things around.The thing that motivates me the most is when people tell me something is absolutely impossible. For me, impossible is just a starting point. That's when you begin.He'll be out playing golf someplace. But, you know what? They're wrong in what they're doing and it's unfair to the people. It's unfair to the country. And they're so wrong.From the depths of that terrible real estate depression, I created a company worth billions and billions of dollars, and created tens of thousands of jobs. Our company -- our employees -- we -- we've made -- I mean, we actually remade skylines together, revitalized neighborhoods, rejuvenated communities, and hired thousands and thousands of workers. On November 8th, America's comeback begins, and we need a comeback.And we are going to rise up from our present challenges bigger, and better, and stronger than ever before.A lot of people said "Why are you going to Pueblo?" I said, number one, I like the state -- number one, everything about Pueblo says winner, including what Dwight Eisenhower said long ago.And they said, "Well, do you think they'll like you in Pueblo?" I said, "I think so." They said --They said, "Well you have a lot of Hispanics/Latinos in Pueblo." And I said "I think that's why they are going to like me, actually. That's why they're going to like me.Friend or -- friend or foe? Friend or foe? Well, he
's got a very weak voice, so you could let him
 stay. But just be good, sir. Be nice. Be nice. We all love you. You're on the other side.You know, the Bernie Sanders people had so much more spirit, and vim and vigor than the Hillary people.The Hillary people are not in the same category. If Bernie Sanders had not made the deal with the devil, he
 would have gone down in the history of politics as a very rare and unique person. But when he
 made that deal -- and I know that he
 wished he
 didn't -- his followers are lost. He
 had an event, recently, where 150 people showed up to hear him
 talk.And I will say this, we've always had, by far, the biggest crowds. But, you know what? He
 was second. He
 was second. But he
 made a deal with devil and his supporters are no longer really his supporters any longer, that I can tell you.And, you know, one of the -- one of the things that Bernie Sanders and I agreed on is trade. And trade is something that is so sad for this country -- what's happening -- how your jobs are being taken. The difference is, I can do something about it and make a bad deal into a great deal. All he
 knew is it was bad, and we want to do something about it. We just can't be a critic.This is a city with a rich immigrant history and a rich Latino history.The Latinos love Trump, right?That has contributed so much to this country and this state. Amazing place. Through the people of Pueblo -- thank you -- and their families, we've hailed from all regions. They've come from all regions of the world. You are united by this one very important factor -- you are all Americans.And, as Americans, you're entitled to the same protections as every other American gets. Everyone living lawfully inside our borders are entitled to the same things: safe communities, a great education, and access to high-paying jobs and really good jobs.And this isn't happening. This is the change that I will deliver. Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years delivering nothing but talk and failure.You know, the other night when we were at the debate, I noticed more than ever before -- we're at the debate and she
's saying she
's going to do this, or this, or this, and that. And I said to myself, "Why hasn't she
 been doing it for 30 years? Right?Just talk. Her
 policies have brought death and destruction overseas and poverty at home. She
's brought massive poverty for everyone, but especially for African American and Latino citizens. She
 comes in, tries to get their vote -- although, I must tell you, the enthusiasm for her
 is very small.Don King, the great boxing promoter who endorsed me, said "Donald, the African Americans, Donald, love you." Don King -- big Don. And here's a man, whether you like him
 or not, that's a smart cookie, a tough cookie, and he
's done a job -- he
's done a job.But he
 said "You are going to see a big surprise on November 8th with -- and in this case he
 was talking about the African Americans. He
 said "You're going to see a big surprise because so many African American people love you and they want you to really help them out in terms of the inner cities, in particular, where it's so dangerous; where education is so bad; where jobs are non-existent; where youth cannot get jobs."So I want to thank Don King and so many others for their endorsement. We had so many others -- so many reverends and pastors, Bishop Jackson from Detroit -- incredible people; Darrell Scott -- Pastor Darrell Scott. So many and I'm so honored by it. And, believe me, I am honored by it.And Don said that Hillary Clinton takes the African American vote for granted. Here's the bad news: I don't think they're going to want to go out and vote for her
. This is not Barack Obama where they really had spirit to vote for him
. Nobody has spirit -- remember, she
 called African American males youth super-predators?Who wants to vote for her. She's not going to do the job anyway. She opposes school choice and she wants to trap African American and Latino children into the failing government schools because she's getting a lot of money from the teachers unions.So she
 doesn't want to have choice and she
 doesn't want to end common core so we can bring education locally, which is very important. She
 doesn't want to do that.We're going to get poor, minority --I'm telling you -- I'm telling you, the Commission on Presidential Debates is operating this microphone.Every time the Secret Service hears that sound, they go "Woah." No, that Commission on Presidential Debates -- what a joke they are.I've got to go through them on Sunday not again? And, by the way, Mike Pence on Tuesday night -- he
 has been fantastic. Governor Mike Pence. What a fantastic guy.Tuesday night. Tuesday night.We are going to get poor, minority children out of failing schools and into the public, private, charter, or magnet school of their choice.-- that she
 lied to during the debate. She
 said she
 never called it the gold standard, and Lester Holt kept questioning me on everything, but he
 never questioned her
 on that, right?And it turned out to be a lie. She
 called it the gold standard and she
 will approve if she
 gets in. But if she
 gets in, you people have made one bad mistake, I can tell you. Colorado has lost more than one in seven manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and China deals.But, while you've lost out, Hillary Clinton has raked in cash from her
 contributors. She
 and Bill have made $150 million in speeches -- and she
's a bad speaker ---- to special interests. They gave 39 speeches to big banks, including $2 million in speaking fees from Goldman Sachs. The Clintons received another $2 million from a Swiss bank after Hillary negotiated a favorable settlement for them as Secretary of State.To hide her corruption, Hillary Clinton puts her emails on an illegal secret server, open to foreign hacking. Then she deleted and bleached 33,000 emails, after a congressional subpoena, to hide them from the public.She
 lies to congress under oath and her
 ringleaders took the Fifth Amendment and got immunity deals. Explain that one.In so many ways it's worse than Watergate. The investigation of Hillary Clinton was rigged and it's a shame. And it's one of the saddest things that have ever taken place in our nation, believe me, what's gone on. We've become a banana republic. You know what? We have. Now, today, we learned that the FBI made a side deal with Clinton's top aides to destroy their laptops. Did you know this?Let me repeat, the FBI reportedly made a deal to destroy the laptops of government officials implicated in a massive criminal cover-up.I think you have a lot of great people in the FBI -- and you do, indeed. I think they are extremely upset at what's going on. Hillary Clinton is the ringleader of a criminal enterprise that has corrupted our government at the highest levels, and the American people have one chance to stop it, by showing up and voting on November 8th.People have had it with the years and decades of Clinton corruption. This is the year the American people say "Enough is enough." The Clinton's are the sordid past. We are, together, as a movement -- all of us -- outside of this area, all over the country -- we are the bright future.Now, another issue I want to address today, finally, immigration. As I mentioned, Pueblo is filled with wonderful, hard-working immigrants. It's these hard-working immigrants who stand to lose the most from our open border immigration policy.Illegal immigration and broken Visa programs take jobs directly from Latino and Hispanic workers living here lawfully today -- you know that. They're taking your jobs. Illegal immigration also brings with it massive crime and massive drugs, including a terrible heroin problem right here in Colorado -- you have a big problem.So we're going to build the border wall and we are not -- what?We're going to build the wall and we're going to stop the drugs, the gangs, the violence from pouring in to Colorado.We've got a lot of bad people that came in. We have great people that came in, but we have a lot of gang members; we have a lot of drug lords; we have a lot of drug sellers. We're going to ship them the hell out, OK? Immediately.We're going to shut down the sanctuary cities that have led to the preventable deaths of so many.Cases like Kate Steinle, murdered in San Francisco by a five-time deported illegal immigrant who should never, ever have been here. Or cases like Sarah Root, killed by an illegal immigrant released at the border by President Obama, and then released again after the killing. There are over two million criminal aliens in this country and we are going to get them out and get them out fast.To the cartels, the gangs, the drug dealers: I have a simple message for you. Your days are numbered and your reign of crime will soon come crashing to an end.But we also have to keep our country safe from terrorism. The terrorists who planted the bombs in New York and New Jersey, and who carried out the mall stabbing in Minnesota -- you all saw that last week -- were foreign nationals admitted into our country, as was the mall shooter in Washington.Or look at cases like the Boston bombers, here on asylum; or the San Bernardino shooter, here on a fiance visa -- fiance -- nice visa -- from Saudi Arabia; killed 14 people that gave them a baby shower a short while before -- and she
 killed them. Not only killed them, but many, many horribly wounded to this day. Or the Orlando shooter; the son of a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan. Terrorists are infiltrating our country.Now, Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees and countless more refugees from across the Middle East.I want to keep your families safe. My job is not to represent foreign countries. My job is to represent the citizens of the United States of America.Putting your jobs, your wages and your security first. America First. Remember that. America First.You're living in the United States today as a lawful resident or a U.S. citizen, I will ensure you have a safe community, rising wages, and secure immigration system, which is what we want.Immigration security is national security -- very important. It's national security. Here are some of the things we will do starting in 2017: We're going to lower your taxes substantially.She
's going to raise your taxes. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation.We're going to repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare.We will make childcare affordable.We're going to save your Second Amendment, which is under siege.And I have the endorsement of the NRA, very early on. Great people We're going to support the men and women of law enforcement.And we're going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court of the United States who will uphold and defend our Constitution.We are going to finally rebuild America. We are going to revitalize America. We are going to unite America. We're going to come together as a people.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one god, saluting one American flag.Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America -- like your cap -- we will make America great again. Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.Unbelievable, wow.So we set the all-time attendance record in this building and people are still pouring in. Can you believe it? Unbelievable, unbelievable. And one young man got here -- you won't believe this, at 4:30 in the morning. Where is he? Where is he? Where is that guy? Come here. Come here.Boy that was a hard hug. He's a strong guy. I want to tell you that.It's great to be here today in Larimer County and in the beautiful state, which we're going to win, of Colorado. Beautiful. On November 8th, we are going to win this state and we're going to win back the White House.And remember, Colorado, mail in your ballots by Election Day. Mail in your ballots by election day, or a lot sooner than that if you can, but get those ballots in because there's only one way this is going to be taken away; that's if we're foolish or if we let people take it away from us. So mail those ballots in. They should arrive at your homes around October 20th; you know that, right? I hate to interrupt my speech with these minor details but they're very important, right? So thank you.Get your friends, get your family, get your co-workers, visit our website and enlist every last person. We can't let this go. We can't have four more years of Barack Obama. We can't.And Crooked Hillary will be worse; she'll be worse. So get those ballots in.And as long as we're talking about winning, I want to congratulate the Denver BroncosOn their undefeated start to the season, and John Elway is a great guy. And I heard the coach saying he played golf with me. He's a good golfer and he's an amazing guy. And coach, I want to thank you, wherever you may be in this massive room. Where's the coach? Where is the coach? Coach, thank you coach. What a nice introduction that was. And the coach also is a big fan of John Elway and John Elway is a winner. John Elway is a winner. So congratulations and good luck again this season. What a team. What a team, what management. They're doing a fantastic job.I also want to recognize the most amazing people of them all, the incredible men and women of the United States Military; they're all over the place.They're all over the place. I was just with a lot of the leaders this morning. We made a speech. We start off in Virginia; boy I'm going all over. It has been wild. But we had amazing people. We're now up to 19 recipients of the Congressional Medal of Honor have endorsed us and we have 200 -- over 200 as of about two days from now -- over 200 admirals and generals and they have been unbelievable because they want to see things happen correctly, not the way they've been happening.We can't beat anybody right now. We don't beat ISIS. Can you imagine General George Patton? He's right now spinning in his grave. Can you imagine this? Can you imagine General Douglas MacArthur? We can't beat ISIS. They wouldn't know what you're even talking about. But I'll tell you one thing they wouldn't do; they wouldn't go on television to announce that very soon we're going after Mosul, did you see that? They announced we're going after Mosul. Why do you have to talk? You do it. You do it.Then you have the leaders of ISIS, lot of them in Mosul, they say you know we're getting out of here now because they announced so we'll go through the whole thing, death and destruction and it won't be the success it should be. They've got to keep their mouths shut and get it done, and every general will say it.You know in the old days, I'd read, it used to be called the element of surprise. We don't have the surprise anymore folks. We don't have it. We have people that truly don't know what they're doing running our country. Remember two weeks ago, $400 million in cash, remember that? Cash. But then that turned out to be wrong; it looks like it was $1.7 billion in cash -- in cash.That would fill up that piece of the arena. And then last week, 800 people ready for deportation to a rough part of the world and guess what happened? They became, instead, United States citizens. And that was wrong also because it turned out not to be 800 people. They think now it's 1,700 people.So I immediately said OK so fix it, undo it. And you know what they said? Well that wouldn't be constitutional. How stupid are we? The world is laughing.Anyway, Colorado is home to six great military bases with unbelievable people stationed at those bases.We're going to eliminate the defense sequester, rebuild our military and take care of our veterans; have to do it. We have to take care of our vets by the way.We're going to conserve your land for future generations and we are going to save your Second Amendment which is under siege.Under siege. And as you know, the NRA endorsed me with the earliest endorsement they've ever given so thank you for the NRA.You gun owners better get out there and vote, I'll tell you. You better get out. You're not going to like it if they get in and all of the sudden rules and regulations are put in. It won't be the same. We have to preserve. We have to preserve and protect our Second Amendment. We have to.One other issue of such great importance to Colorado is energy. Hillary Clinton wants to shut down the mines. She also wants to shut down shale energy production, denying you billions of dollars in wealth and of course of billions and hundreds of millions of jobs in terms of dollars. We can't let that happen. Remember, it was Crooked Hillary who said, by the time we get through all of my conditions I do not think there will be many places in America where fracking will continue to take place. That's a lot of people.That's a lot of jobs. And when we want to compete with other countries, we better not think that way because we are losing out big leagueig league.She also wants to shut down oil and natural gas production. Her anti-energy policies will take millions of jobs from Colorado, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Florida and so many other states. We are going to end Hillary Clinton's war on Colorado energy and we're going to put our miners back to work. Our miners are going back to work.While my opponent focuses on small petty things, we are discussing the vital issues facing our country and our people and we have many, many vital issues. We are going to talk borders. We're going to talk trade, jobs and refugees. We're going to talk about crime and failing schools and how to turn our country around.Hillary can't discuss the issues because she's one of the ones who helped create the problems in the first place. All she can accuse the country of -- and you saw that the other day and the other night -- is racism. And attack Trump voters and Bernie voters -- did you see where she attacked the Bernie voters? Bernie should have never made a deal with the devil. He would have gone down as having done something amazing and now it was thrown out the window.And she'll do everything she can to distract from the issues and her enormous corruption and criminal conduct; a campaign of distraction funded by Wall Street investors and hedge fund managers. These special interests are counting on Hillary to keep rigging the system as she's done her whole career. All that stands between you and the country you want our Hillary Clinton's special interests and all you have to do to beat those special interests is mail in those ballots and get out to vote on November 8th. That's all you have to do.I wish those cameras would -- hey would you do me a favor fellas, span the room. Span the room, go ahead, span the room.Span the room. Pretty amazing. The place is packed. New record. The place is packed.They never show our crowds, never. Maybe I'll just wade into the crowd. Maybe that way they will. They never. And in fact tonight when you go home, because I just looked behind, the smallest section is right behind me because we have the flag and the flag of Colorado. So we have -- so all you see is my face and the few people but they're going to become movie stars; very attractive people. You're not going to see this because they never show it because it's bad to show it, because if they show it they're going to see what's happening.And they don't see that this is going all the way up to the rafters and we love our flag but I think I'm going to move it a little bit in this direction next time because they're going to show how many rows. Nice crowd. Nice but you understand what I'm saying? My people don't get it. My people don't. They don't get it, my people. But if they would span the crowd, and this is what we have no matter where we go. It's only dictated by the size of the arena, right by the size. We went to Pueblo today. We had a tremendous crowd, right. All dictated by the size of the arena.And I want to thank our fire marshal who was fantastic; he was fantastic to allow so many people into the building. They had people standing in every door but I always say, how can you have a fire; it's a concrete floor? But I want to thank the fire marshals. They were fantastic. And I want to thank our police. What a job they do. What a job.What a job.I've made a centerpiece of my economic revitalization plan the largest middle class tax cut and this is -- this is big stuff. The largest tax cut since Ronald Reagan and the largest -- right -- the largest regulatory reform in American history. So we have the big tax cut and for companies we're bringing it down from 35 to 15 percent. Our companies are leaving our country and we're bringing it way down to 12.5 percent for middle income to zero for people that aren't doing so well but they'll be making the 12.5 percent and then they'll be paying hopefully some pretty good tax someday but we're bringing them all down, the personal taxes, the corporate taxes.We brought the taxes down where trillions of dollars is outside of our country, trillions, and companies can't bring it back because the tax is so high it doesn't make sense plus bureaucratically they can't do it. So what do they do -- you know what they do? They leave the country to get their money, and they leave the country because taxes are too high, just about the highest in the world, our taxes.And you know with all those taxes our roads are bad, everything is bad. It's not like, oh gee we have high taxes but everything is tippy top, as we say. It's the opposite of tippy top. You've got potholes. You've got airports that are horrible like third world countries. You've got bridges that are half falling down. Did you see the safety records on the bridges? So we are going to get things straight now folks. So we're going to put people back to work but we're going to put Americans back to work, Americans.Oh, I'd like to move those flags over, OK. So I've been...I've been saying from the beginning that this campaign and how ridiculous everything is when you look at -- yes, the unfair tax system. I've been talking about how crazy the tax system is, how unfair it is, how much tax we pay. This is not the fault, believe it or not, of the IRS, but the political class that is owned outright by the special interests of the lobbyists. They want something done. They want a provision put in; they put it in.It's these politicians who wrote and amend and tax code, really, a tax code that really is a disgrace to our country in so many ways. It's a favor to the donors. It's a favor to the special interests. Many so-called experts that get tremendous fees to understand what's going on. They have no idea of the size, the complexity of the code itself and thousands of thousands of pages represent unfairness.The unfairness of the tax laws is unbelievable. It's something that I've been talking about for a long time. You've heard me talking about it, despite being a very big beneficiary, I must admit. I am.I am -- I'm a big beneficiary. But you're more important than my being a beneficiary so we're going to straighten it out and make it fair for everybody, more fair.I understand the tax laws better than almost anyone, which is why I am the one who can fix them and that is what I commit to you. I will do it.As a business person, I've legally used the tax laws to benefit -- really I mean it's to my benefit -- and the benefit of my company, my investors, my employees, my family. Thank you.As a major real estate developer in this country and throughout the world I face enormous taxes, city taxes, state taxes, sales taxes, excise taxes, employee taxes, federal taxes, VAD taxes in different countries. It's my job always to minimize the overall tax burden to the greatest extent possible which allows me to reinvest in neighborhood workers, building amazing structures all over the place and it fuels a tremendous growth in various communities throughout the United States.And by the way George Soros declared $1.5 billion.He declared $1.5 billion in losses in six months and in 2014 Warren Buffet lost $873 million. I wonder if they deducted that. Do you think? No, I don't think so. Why would they ever do a thing like that, right? Do you think they'd ever do a thing like that? I don't think so. That's just the beginning I could give you numbers that you wouldn't even believe, numbers far bigger than that, massive numbers and we are going to do things to make our tax system fair and make our whole country a more fair place to live.The news media is now obsessed with an alleged filing from the 1990's -- that's a long time ago -- at the end of one of the most brutal economic downturns in our country's history. The conditions facing real estate developers in the early '90s were almost as bad as the Great Depression in 1929 and far worse than the Great Recession in 2008 which was nothing compared to the early '90s.What had been a booming economy in the era of Ronald Reagan changed dramatically and the business landscape changed with it, bank failures, the collapse of the savings and loan industry, the implosion of the retail market, real estate in general was a disaster. Many business people including many of my competitors -- some of my friends -- were not able to survive.Companies, jobs, opportunities were lost and lives were destroyed as tens of thousands of people were put out of work. That was a rough period, the roughest period I've ever seen. Some people say in many respects it was almost the equivalent of 1929, the disaster.Yet today my company is bigger, stronger, with far greater assets and more premium properties than ever before. My company has never been stronger, it's never been better. It is one great company.And, I'm leaving for this, all these years you build your company. Somebody said, you know he built this great company, some of the great properties in the world and now when he could be enjoying the fruits of his labor what's he doing? I'm with you in a hot arena making speeches.I'm with you in an arena that's about 95 degrees because it wasn't supposed to have this many people. It wasn't designed. That's supposed to be a hockey, nice cool space, right, or basketball, or something. This is amazing.But I love doing it and I must tell you, and I tell this often, people in this room, in many cases, were making more money 18 years ago with one great job then they're making today with two and three jobs.And the only thing I can tell you -- the only thing I can tell you, is they're getting older and they're working harder and they're making less. It's not supposed to be that way. But you know what? I'm getting older and I'm working harder right now than I've ever worked in my life so we're all in the same boat. It's all in this.I was able to use the tax laws of our country and my skills as a business person to dig out of this real estate depression when few others were able to do that. In those most difficult times when so many had their backs to the wall, I reached within myself and delivered for my company, my employees, my family, and the communities where my properties existed, I did a great job.During the early '90s as companies were collapsing one after another the media and powers that be said, Donald Trump could never make it back, remember? I don't know if you remember. Some of you -- it's still a long time ago. That we're bringing this up is a little ridiculous but let's do it anyway. But they did, they were so happy, just like they're miserable today. They said how did this happen with Trump. They said I had billions of dollars of borrows and hundreds of millions in personal guaranty and no pathway out, and they were largely true except I always felt I did have a path. But I never had any doubts and I never, ever gave up like the people in this room. We never gave up.That's because I knew in my heart that when the chips were down is when I perform the best; it's when a lot of the people in this room -- I know the people in this room. I know who you are. I know your guts. I know the people in this room and the people in plenty of other rooms where we go and break records at every arena we go to. The reason I never felt in danger during the real estate downturn -- and I never did -- was that I knew myself, I knew my business, I knew the financial system, I knew the tax code inside out and backwards. And most importantly, I knew how to fight.And that's what I am and what you are, we're fighters. And I'm now going to fight for you. We're bringing our country back.In the early '90s they splashed the front pages with stories about how Donald Trump finally, finally, he's finished. Do you think they like me? I don't think so. Everybody said that I was done. There were front page articles in the Wall Street Journal and the New York Times. They were thrilled and delighted to write these negative stories and they were negative.So they said I was finished. The only person who didn't that I was in trouble was Donald J. Trump. I didn't think so. And you know what? My mother and father loved me, my brothers, my sisters, my best friends, they thought I was going to do very well. But I will say we have to have confidence in ourselves and I had a lot of confidence that this was a bad -- this was really a depression.A lot of the folks in the room, I'm just watching, as they're wincing when I mention the dates because those were bad times for a lot of people including people here. I started my company with a small loan and as I grew I borrowed money in order to grow the company. I borrowed a lot from big banks, big institutions. When the bottom fell out of the real estate market, I had all the debt. It stayed the same but the value of the assets plummeted. Interesting.But I knew how to use the tax code to rebuild my company when others didn't have a clue. Some of them come to see me today and they say man I wish I saw you Donald and they're wiped out. My understanding of the tax code gave me a big advantage over those who didn't have a clue, including many of my competitors who lost everything they had, never to be heard from again.Now they're gone, I'm here and I'm ready to turn things around for our country.And the dishonest media is back there saying, can you believe it, we just, we can't get rid of this guy. This guy is brutal.This guy is brutal. The early '90s was a very tough time for the world but in tough times you need very tough and very smart people which is you. These are tough times for America today and we need smart leaders. These tough times were when I performed my best and enjoyed it in a certain way the most. The economy and the banks collapsing, the government was a mess but I enjoyed waking up every single morning to go to battle and it was battle.I enjoyed getting up, taking out the financial establishment, dealing with the financial establishment, some were friendly, some were great, some were terrible. But I did it because I had to win. I had to win. I know how to make a deal. I know how to make a comeback. And that's what it is, again, bigger, better, stronger company by far than ever before. That's the thinking we need for our country. That's the thinking we need when we are negotiating trade deals and military deals and economic deals on behalf of the American people. That's what we need.Put me into the boardroom as your representative and I will deliver for you like no politician has ever delivered, believe me, believe me.We're going to deliver. We're going to deliver. We're going to get the best people in the world. You know we have the greatest business people in the world and we don't use them. We use political hacks to negotiate trade deals and frankly it is disgusting when you look at what's happened to our country.Hillary Clinton is in it only for herself and for her donors. I'm here fighting for America. When the pressure is on, when the odds are stacked against me. When people say it can't be done, that's when we have to get started.The one thing that motivates me the most, is when people tell me -- and they tell the United States -- that something is totally impossible because believe me we have a very tough situation right now. For me, impossible is just a starting point. From the depths of that terrible real estate depression, I created a company worth billions and billions of dollars and created tens of thousands of jobs.Our company and our employees remade skylines, revitalized neighborhoods, rejuvenized communities and hired thousands and thousands of American workers. On November 8th, America's comeback begins and we are going to rise up from our present challenge bigger and better and stronger than ever before.Those who spend their entire lives within the confines of government work and who know virtually know nothing of business fail to understand the skill, dedication and sheer grit it takes for a company to climb out of an economic depression of the scale we had in the early '90s. People like my opponent, Crooked Hillary Clinton, whose only method of making money is by selling government favors and granting access to special interests, know nothing about how businesses succeed and grow.All you have to do is look at upstate New York and the terrible job she did. She said she was going to bring back jobs, she never did. It was a disaster and it is to this day. Hillary Clinton has never created a single job in her life or added a single dollar of value to the American economy. Hillary Clinton hasn't made an honest dollar in her life. All she does is take from you, take from our country and pedals influence to donors, special interests and foreign actors for astronomical dollars, frankly, like probably never before. It's corruption of the highest order.While I made my money as a successful, private business person following the law, Hillary Clinton made her money as a corrupt public official breaking the law and putting her government offices for sale.By her own account Crooked Hillary left the White House dead broke, and now she and her husband have made more than $200 million without building a company or creating a single thing of value. I left private business for public life. Do you believe I'm in public life? Can you believe this? Am I a politician? I hope not, because I understand our country is in bad shape and needs to be turned around fast.We are $20 trillion in debt -- doubled under Obama -- and we run massive trade deficits on an annual basis, almost $800 billion in trading with the world this year. Think of it. We had a trade deficit this year almost $800 billion.We have decaying infrastructures, failing schools, rising crime, a depleted military with the greatest people in the world there but it's depleted in so many different ways including its equipment, an open border and an economy that can't create full-time, high-paying jobs. We are a divided nation and each week it seems we're getting more and more divided. With race riots in our streets on a monthly basis. This is not the America that was handed down to us, and it's not the America we want given to our children.But this is the America we will have, if we don't change our leadership immediately. We need that change. We need that vote November 8th, you've got to get out there.The failed political establishment must go. It must go for the sake of your country, your future and those you love the most, like that little guy right there, right? Hold that baby up. It's so beautiful. Wow.And he likes it.The people of Colorado know what it takes to rebuild this country. This is a state with a rich immigrant history and a rich Latino history.Though you hail from all regions of the world, you're united by this one thing, you are all Americans and great Americans. And as Americans, you're entitled to the same protections as every other American. Everyone lawfully living inside of our borders is entitled to the same things: safe communities, a great education and access to high-paying wonderful jobs.This is the change that we will deliver. Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and delivered nothing but failure. Look at her record. She's got experience but its bad experience. Her policies have brought death and destruction overseas and poverty at home. She also put Iran on the path to nuclear weapons. That was the beginning of her deal, one of the worst deals anybody has ever seen negotiated. And on the path to a massive infusion of cash and resources including, the lifting of sanctions on banks used to finance the missile program which is hard to believe.In America, she brought enormous poverty to all communities. She brought it to the communities and the inner cities like you wouldn't believe, but especially African American and Latino citizens. She turned a blind eye to rising crime and has no solutions for the suffering people of Chicago, Baltimore and all over the nation.You see what's happening. Chicago, thousands and thousands of shootings since January 1st -- thousands. Instead she attacks the police. And by the way, I've gotten the endorsement from virtually every police chief.We need safety. She opposes school choice and wants to trap poor African American and Latino children in failing government schools because she wants the money from the teacher's union to keep pouring in. That's all it is.Hillary Clinton supports Obamacare and wants to expand it. Obamacare is an absolute disasterWhere premiums in Colorado are set to go up by massive numbers. And the only way to stop this disaster is to vote for Donald Trump, that I can tell you.Hillary Clinton also supports the terrible trade deals like Bill Clinton's NAFTA -- one of the worst deals ever made in the history of trade. And China's entry into the World Trade Organization, and next she wants the Transpacific Partnership, the deal she calls the gold standard -- which she lied about during the debate, and she said she never said that. But of course Lester Holt questioned her. All he does is question me, me.Colorado has lost more than one in seven manufacturing jobs since the NAFTA and China deals. But while you've lost out, Hillary Clinton has raked in cash from her contributors. She and Bill have made $150 million in speeches and she's not a good speaker, it's amazing. It's special interests. They gave 39 speeches to big banks including $2 million in speaking fees from Goldman Sachs. I would like to see what the speeches said. She doesn't want to release them. Release the papers, Hillary, release those papers.And never forgot Hillary's deal that allowed Russia to get 20 percent of America's uranium and it cost them dearly. They got a lot of money for that one. To hide her corruption, Hillary Clinton put her emails on an illegal server, a secret server, think of it, open to foreign hacking. Then she deleted and bleached -- and nobody bleaches because it's such an expensive process you just don't do it. Most people, even sophisticated people, never even heard of it. She bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after a congressional subpoena.So think of this: she gets subpoenaed and after she gets a subpoena she deletes all of her emails. Wow.She lied to Congress under oath and her staff has took the Fifth -- you remember that. So many people took the Fifth Amendment there was nobody left. They all got immunity deals. They all got immunity. I mean what is she a five? There was nobody else they could go after. They all had immunity. They shouldn't have wasted their time if they're going to give them immunity. What are you wasting your time for? It's worse than Watergate. It's a bigger deal than Watergate. But unfortunately, the media doesn't want to follow it.The investigation of Hillary Clinton was rigged. It's a shame and I must tell you it's one of the saddest things that many of us have every witnessed in this country. We've become a banana republic and today we learned that the FBI made a side deal with Clinton's top aides to destroy their laptops. They said it's OK, destroy your laptops, get rid of them.What is going on, right? What is going on?Clinton is the ring leader of a criminal enterprise that has corrupted our government at the highest levels. And the American people have one chance to stop it and that is with their vote.People have had -- people have had it with the years, the decades of Clinton corruption. Remember? Impeached for lying, can't practice law. I mean what are we doing folks? What are we doing?Although the good news, it seems like we're up in Colorado, that's good.And we're up in Ohio, and we're up in North Carolina, and we're up in Florida. We're up in a lot of places. And they're spending in some cases 50 to one ads, ads, 50 to one. So how can you be tied or up, when she -- and the ads are so false. Some of them are a little bit true, but they're so false. This will be the year the American people say enough is enough.Now another issue that we want to address today is immigration. Colorado is home to many wonderful, hard-working immigrants.And it's these hard-working immigrants who stand to lose the most from our open borders and our open immigration policy. Illegal immigration and broken visa programs take jobs directly from Latino workers living lawfully in Colorado and any states -- many states today.It's also taking jobs from African Americans who want so much to have those jobs. Illegal immigration also brings with it massive crime and massive drugs, including a terrible heroine problem right here in Colorado. You have a tremendous problem. Everybody is telling me about it but many of the states have that problem.We are going to build a wall.And we're going to stop the drugs, the gangs and the violence from pouring into Colorado and from pouring into our country.We're going to shut down the sanctuary cities that have led the preventable deaths of so, so many. Cases like Kate Steinle murdered in San Francisco by a five-time deported illegal immigrant, or cases like Sarah Ruth killed by an illegal immigrant released at the border by President Obama and then released again after the killing, or my friend Jamiel Shaw who lost his incredible son, talented son, beautiful son, lost to an illegal immigrant that shouldn't have been here, or cases like Marilyn Ferris. Marilyn was a 64-year-old Air Force veteran who was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer, an illegal immigrant, had been arrested on multiple occasions but was never, ever deported.There are over two million criminal aliens in this country and we are going to get them out of our country and we are going to get them out quickly.To the cartels, to the gangs, to the drug dealers, I have a simple message for you: your days are numbered and your reign of crime will soon be coming to a very, very crashing end.With that being said, we also have to keep our country safe from terrorists. The terrorists who planted the bombs in New York and New Jersey just last week and who carried out the mall stabbing in Minnesota were foreign nationals admitted into our country as was the mall shooter in Washington. Or look at cases like the Boston bombers, you remember them, here on asylum, or the San Bernardino shooter here on a fiance visa -- sounds so nice, sounds so nice, fiance visa.Our people didn't know what they were doing. And frankly, they should've checked her Facebook page and they would've never let her into this country. Killed 14 people -- people that gave them a party for their baby, killed them, many, many wounded will never be able to recover fully. Or the Orlando shooter, the son of a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan.Terrorists are infiltrating our country. Now Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees and countless, more refugees from across the Middle East.I want to keep you and your families safe and we will.And we'll build safe zones in Syria and we'll get the Gulf States to pay for them, not us.But we have to keep our country safe, because what's happening from within -- this could be the great Trojan horse of all time folks.My job is not to represent foreign countries. My job is to represent the citizens of the United States of America, putting your jobs, your wages and your security first. If you're living in the United States today as a lawful resident or U.S. citizen, I will ensure you have a safe community, rising wages, and an immigration system that protects your jobs.We're not going to let our companies go to Mexico and other places, make the same product, fire all of their employees and think they're going to sell that product across our now very strong border and there won't be retribution. No there will be retribution. There will be consequences, and the consequence will be that they will pay a 35 percent tax every time they make something and want to sell it back into the United States.And when that happens, they're not going to move -- very simple. They're going to say wow our formulas don't work so well anymore. But the politicians don't want that because they're taken care of by people that own these companies OK. Me, I don't care. I put up a fortune for my campaign and I don't care -- I don't care.Here are some more things we will do starting in 2017. We are going to lower your taxes massively.Hillary is going to increase your taxes. We are going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation. She is going to increase regulations. We're going to end common core and provide school choice.We will repeal and replace job killing Obamacare.We are going to make child care affordable. We're going to save the Second Amendment which is under siege.We're going to support the men and women of law enforcement.And appoint Justices of the United States Supreme Court, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.We are going to rebuild America. We are going to revitalize America. We are going to unite America again.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag, can you imagine.Together, we will make America wealthy again. We have to do that. We will make America strong again. We will America safe again, and we will America great again.Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless you everybody.Thank you, everybody. Thank you. I am so thrilled to be back in Arizona.And I just rode the line, I went outside. They say they have 15,000 to 20,000 people outside, I've never seen anything like it except at other Trump rallies. Pretty amazing. And they're watching on a big screen and I just want to thank them very much. They're all outside, it's a little bit hot, that line is very long but all of the folks outside, we want to thank you very much. We love you. Thank you.And if anybody in this room would like to give up their places, some of the people outside, please raise your hand. Raise your hands. In 35 days, we are going to win this state and we are going to win back the White House.We're going to make America rich again, we're going to make America rich again. I'm going to end illegal immigration, stop the mess of inflow of refugees, keep the jobs from pouring out of our country, they're going one way and it's only out. Our disastrous trade deals and massively reduce taxes, and I will tell you, we are going to reduce taxes big league and regulations on our workers and small businesses will be cut in half for more than that. Thank you.My economic agenda is very, very simple. Jobs, jobs, jobs.I want to send our best wishes to our great governor, Mike Pence, as he prepares for his debate tonight. Great guy.The debate will be a contrast between our campaign of big ideas and bold solutions for tomorrow versus the small and petty Clinton campaign that is totally stuck in the past, totally stuck in the past.We are change, she is for four more years of Obama and we can't take that.Clinton can't talk about real problems facing our country because she is the one who have create all of those problems in the first place then I cannot be able to do anything about it.To hide her corruption, she deleted 33,000 emails after getting a congressional subpoena.How she got away with that is a disgrace.Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and hasn't fixed anything. She talks and talks and talks. In fact, she's just made things a lot worst. She failed at upstate New York promising to create 200,000 jobs but manufacturing is down in New York State by almost 40 percent. She failed overseas, unleashing death and destruction. And she failed Latinos and African-Americans producing only more poverty in our inner cities.By the way, is there any place that's more fun or creative to be than in Trump rally, right?And there's no place safer, believe me, there's no place safer.So now, after years of failure, she complains about how I've used the tax flaws of this country to my benefit. Then I ask you simple question, why didn't she ever tried to change those laws so I couldn't use them. You know why? She could have changed the laws when she was in the United State Senate but she didn't. She named a few buildings, that's all she did.The reason that she did not do that is her donors and contributors have used those same tax flaws as I did, the same way.I know all of their names and I know who they are but it's not up to me to make them public figures. But just check it out. Two public Hillary supporters who were known are George Soros who declared losses of $1.5 billion. Soros declared $1.5 losses, $1.5 billion in just six months. And Warren Buffett declared $873 million. Ask if did they write off those losses, I doubt it, right? I doubt it. And there are many, many more. Many, many more. We could go through a long list but just take a look at their donors. I know how the code works better than anyone and I'm going to fix it so it's fair and just and works for you, works for you.These politicians folks don't have a clue. And if they do, they can't do it because their donors won't let them. Remember, I'm my donor, I'm my donor.We have created a movement. A movement like it's never been seen in this country before. A movement that even our enemies back there -- look at all that press, among the most dishonest people in the world.But even our enemies in the press say as one of the great political phenomenas of all time in the history of our country. But we have to get out and vote on November 8th or frankly this movement was just a waste of time, energy and money. We have to get out and vote.And do your early ballots if you can. I've made my money as a very successful private business person following the laws of our country. Hillary Clinton made her money as a corrupt public official violating the law and putting her government office up for sale.Remember she left the White House said, they were broke and now there were $250 million. How did that happen?The problems we faces the country are amends and it's going to take bold action to turn things around. Right now, we owe $20 trillion in debt, it doubled under President Obama, double.Our infrastructure, roads and everything is like a third world country. The homicide raid last year experienced, in its largest cities, single year increase is the biggest in 45 years, think of that. The biggest single increase, 45 years homicide, 45 years biggest increase. Our border is wide open and drugs and criminal cartels are pouring in to the country and nobody knows that better than the people of Arizona, nobody. And we're going to stop it. We're going to stop it fast.We're going to build the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall. We're going to stop the drugs from pouring in to Arizona and every other state in our union poisoning our youth, we're going to stop it. And I want to thank Sheriff Joe who has been a supporter right from the beginning. Thank you Sheriff Joe.And I want to thank the Border Patrol and ICE, both of them gave us their endorsement. They've never done it to any presidential candidate before. So Sheriff Joe, Border Patrol -- 16,500 Border Patrol agents and ICE, we want to thank you for your endorsement, amazing. They've never given it before. Thank you. Thank you.Thousands of refugees are being admitted with no way to screen them and they're instantly made eligible for welfare and free health care even as our own veterans die waiting for medical care that they desperately need. Our annual trade deficit with the world is nearly $800 billion a year. Who the hell negotiates these deals? It's going to chance, it's going to change. Think of it. Trade deficit almost $800 billion a year, it's going to change so fast.Have you watched the stock market? Whenever I do well in the polls, other countries, their sort of stock goes down a little bit. There stock goes down a little bit. Well, it's not going to be much but we want to have a fair deal. We don't want to lose $800 billion for what, for what. Remember this folks, America First, America First. It's about time, America First.The federal budget is a complete and total disaster.Our state department mostly under the watch of Crooked Hillary Clinton, misplaced -- listen to that -- misplaced or lost $6 billion in tax payer's fund. How do you misplace $6 billion?We have the worst recovery and I say so-called recovery since the great depression, the worst. We're growing as a nation, we're down to one percent. You know, if China goes down to seven percent or eight percent, it's like a national catastrophe, they start devaluing their currency, they do all sorts of things to take more business out of our hides. We're at one percent, one percent and we act like, it's wonderful." Let me tell you folks, we're in above all and we have to be very, very careful and we need strong leadership and smart leadership. We need leadership that knows what's happening.We're a nation divided with race riots in the street. You look at what's going on, race riots in the street. Our college students graduate loaded with debt only to discover they can't find jobs. Or certainly not the jobs they are trained for or the jobs that they want.Overseas, our failed leaders has empowered Iran. Iran was nothing three years ago. And now they are telling us what to do. How do you figure that? They were nothing.And they are on their way very easily to nuclear weapons because of one of the dumbest deals in the history of our country. That deal with Iran is a disgrace.We've unleashed ISIS that came out at the vacuum created by Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton the way they got the troops out. We've turned Iraq, Libya and Syria into total chaos. Our allies aren't paying their fair share for military protection. Foreign countries like Russia and China do not respect us -- you saw just today -- Russia broke the deal on peace in Syria, Russia.No respect for this country. They have no respect for our leadership. They have no respect. Putin has no respect to Hillary Clinton and no respect for Obama. Russia broke the deal and now they're shooting, they're bombing. Something like that should end and it should end fast. It's very sad. But they don't respect us.And our tax paying citizens send troops and foreign aid all over the world even as their own cities can't provide the most basic services. America needs a turnaround -- it's need of turnaround fast. America needs a comeback. America needs change, change.And that's why I'm running. That's why I'm running.First, we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare.The architect of Obamacare, you remember this from two years ago, Jonathan Gruber admitted in front of a group of his so-called friends, unfortunately, one of his friends wasn't so friendly. Admitted that the wholesales pitch on Obamacare was a lie. He called it, "The Stupidity of the American Voter." Do you remember that? But the only stupidity was just the stupidity of our leaders who pass this disaster into law, over the objection of the American people. And it was all a big lie because without the lies, it would have never pass even the democrats would not have voted for President Obama said, if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, remember? He promise his plan would reduce premiums by $2,500, instead, they went up by over $5,000 and people can't afford it.Now, did you hear yesterday -- did you hear yesterday? Of all people maybe he's not a very good surrogate. I don't think so. President Bill Clinton came out and told the truth about Obamacare -- this was yesterday. He's absolutely trashed President Obama's signature legislation. Remember Hillary Clinton called Obamacare, one of the greatest accomplishments of president Obama, of the Democratic Party, and of our country, give me a break. You see what's happening with your premiums, they're going through the roof somewhere up 60 percent, 70 percent, 80 percent. But Bill Clinton has a much different view, this way yesterday.Here is what Bill said, he just said it, "It was a crazy system where people end up with premiums doubled and coverage cut in half." He's right. He said, it's the "craziest thing in the world," these are exact quotes by the way, I'm not, you know, like these are exact. Bill Clinton said, "People out there are busting it sometimes 60 hours a week and wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half."The people getting killed in this deal are the small business people and the individuals who make just a bit too much money and just they need the subsidies. They have to get help. He said, they're making just a bit too much. He's actually right, right? Clinton added that, "It doesn't make any sense. And that the insurance models doesn't work." Now, I've been saying that for a long time, at least he's honest, he's very late.In the meantime, she wants to double down on Obamacare. I'll bet he went through hell last night. Can you imagine?Can you imagine what he went through after making that statement? He went through hell. But you know honestly, there have been many nights when he's gone through hell with Hillary, you know what I mean.Well I want to thank you him honestly for being honest, I want to thank him because that's it. It's not a great secret, that's it. Exactly what he said is it which is why on my first day in office, I am going to ask a Republican Congress to send me a bill to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare.Right?This is essential Arizona. Because of Obamacare, most of the state will only have one carrier next year if you can believe that -- they're all leaving. All the insurance companies are pulling out and premiums are expected to go way above 50 percent next year, good luck folks, you better hope Trump wins I'll tell you what, you better hope. You better hope. You better get out there and vote 50 percent.And by the way, above 50 percent and your deductible is so high, you'll never be able to use it hopefully unless it say really low, slow, violent death because otherwise, you'll never be able to use it. Your deductible is so high that you'll never be able to -- see you're paying for more and you're getting nothing, you'll never going to be able to use that deductibles do high or -- early balance aremailed out on October 12th in Arizona and you need to mail them back as soon as you can.Next, the very important for this state, and I love this state. You know, this was where I made my first major speech when I decided to run for president.And we had -- and we had a massive crowd and everybody was like surprised except for the people that were in the room with me. But everybody was surprised. Remember that we had a crowd I guess almost the size of this one because when we double up outside and triple up, nothing is the size of this one. But we had a massive crowd and a lot of people like real professionals like Drudge, he's a great guy and others said, I think we just met your next president -- they couldn't believe it. And we went around, we had 17 people running and one by one by one and now we're down to one person, one person. One person.And it's a difference between making America great again and having a failed nation because she will create a failed nation. Four more years or Obamacare we cannot take it and I think she'll be worse. I think she will actually be worse than President Obama if that's possible.So next, we're going to unleash American energy. I just met with energy producers in Colorado -- I was in Colorado for the last day and half. By the way, the crowds were like this. The people here, the people there, the people in our country are amazing, they are great. They are great. Such incredible people.And these leaders in the energy field are pleading with the government to let them create jobs and wealth for the United States, but it's virtually impossible. As part of our plan to reach four percent growth -- and I think we can do much better than that -- and create at least 25 million new jobs, we are going to lift the restrictions on Shell oil, natural gas, clean coal and all forms of job producing American energy.Fixing our trade deals will be the foundation of our economic revival. Do you remember in June 16th of last year, I ran. And one of the primary things was immigration, illegal immigration, wall, OK, we know that. The other thing was fixing our trade deals because we are the worse, you know, we have the greatest negotiators in world in our country but we don't use them we use political hacks and we're going to fix our trade deals.China, Japan, and Europe are printing huge sums of money. The devaluation of currencies is staggering as to what it represents for our country, our business and our citizens. They're taking our businesses away, they're taking our jobs away. We're not on a level playing field and our politicians don't understand what the hell is going on, they don't understand it. And the ones they do aren't going to do anything about it because they're taking care of by the companies that are benefiting, OK? They're not going to do it.Our jobs are being lost in massive numbers and we're not making things in America anymore like we used to not even close and we're going to change that.Too much is being made in other countries. When I'm president, we will start making things in America again.Companies like Apple and others will start making their computers and iPhones in our country. Our nation has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA -- one of the worse trade deals anytime, anywhere, anyplace. And I'll tell you that was the deal that was heavily supported by Hillary Clinton.The signing of NAFTA was perhaps the single worse trade deal ever made -- not at this country -- anywhere in the world, it wiped out huge sections of our manufacturing and other things. And believe me we're going to do a lot about that, that's easy.Hillary's Korea deal also caused us another 100,000 jobs. She signed the deal with Korea, you know that, with South Korea and it was supposed to be a wonderful deal, it turned out to be a wonderful deal for South Korea. For us, it turned out to be catastrophic. Take a look at the jobs we lost on that one.Since China entered the World Trade Organization under the Bill and Hillary back deal, 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States. When I saw that I said, wait a minute, that has to be a misprint, 70,000? That's the correct number. Seventy thousand factories, shut down. That's 15 factories closing a day on average. She did a great job.And, you know, Bill Clinton -- people think nicely, we all think nicely. What he did, he made it very though for the people that followed him that I can tell you.Never in history has a country surrendered so much of its wealth and jobs to foreign countries. As the factories leave, our money leaves with them and our jobs dissipate. Stores close, school suffer, the tax pays the roads, wages fall and the quality of life totally declines. We have people right now on this room, who were making more money 18 years ago with one job, one good job that they loved, their company left, their company fired them and left.Now, they are working harder, they're older, right? They're older. They have two jobs and sometimes three jobs instead of one. And you know what they're making less money. And the only thing I can say is I'm also working harder to folks believe me, believe me. If you think this isn't work? This is work, but I see the end, I see the result, and the result is we are going to win on November 8th and we're going to make America great again.We've rebuilt other countries at the expense of our own. That's not going to happen anymore. And we're going to get along -- we're going to get along with countries. I mean look at China, China drains money out of us like we're a bunch of babies and yet they build a massive military base in the South China Sea which they're not supposed to be doing.So they take our money and they do whatever they want to do. Same thing -- I mean looking at Iran, we've given them -- we've made them rich, we've made them strong, we've made them powerful so quickly and then they taunt us, they capture our 10 sailors, they taunted us. And they would have never give them back except to all of those payment started. The $150 billion that they get back, started.How about with Iran to $400 million in cash and then it turned out to be wrong, it was actually $1.7 billion they say in cash. That much cash will fill-up that side of the arena. I want to tell you nobody has ever seen stupidity like it. And now what do they do? What do they do? They were in such bad shape. What do they do?They taunt us by having their boats going around our cruises. That taunt us by having their jet fighters near our planes. So they feel embolden instead of saying, thank you very much, they feel embolden. Well, we're going to make sure they do the right thing, I can tell you that folks and behold different ballgame. Going to be a whole different ballgame.It is so sad to see what's happened to our country and that's why like Mike, our Congressional Medal of Honor winner -- what a great guy, we flew into together, what a great guy. The recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor -- we have 21 and 200 admirals. Think of this, 200 admirals and generals are endorsing us because they're sick and tired of us being the weak and very stupid country. We are led by people that don't have a clue, we're led by a man that can't use the term "Radical Islamic Terrorism".It's sad. Companies like Carrier, General Electric, Motorola, Mattel, Fiat Chrysler and so many others are moving their jobs to Mexico and other countries. And as you're standing here right now, many of these companies are negotiating to leave the United State. Not going to happen. And now Ford has announced two weeks ago that it's moving all of its small car transportation and production to Mexico, think of it. That's on top of the massive $2 billion that they're off -- and you saw, two years ago, and I think that's why I'm going to win Ohio and Michigan because two years ago...All right, get em out, get em out. Doctor? Is there a doctor in the house, please? Get a medic please. Thank you. A doctor please, thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.Is he OK? He looks like a tough guy to me. OK. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Good. Great guy.You know, some of these people have been waiting here 10 hours so -- and it's hot. The other day they said on television, Donald Trump was making a speech and it looked like he was sweating, it was a 109 degrees in the room. What am I going to do? It's hot in this room too. Thank you very much we love you man, thank you.And that's why I think we're going to win the state of Michigan and Ohio because I've been talking about the car business and the car production capacity moving to Mexico. I've been talking about it for six years and you look at what's happening. Mexico is like the eighth wonder of the world in terms of the factories they're building. You know the story. I have a friend at builds plans and he tells me what's going on in Mexico is unbelievable.I say, what about the United States, he goes, not so much. We're going to have that change. We want Mexico to do great. I met with the president of Mexico, great guy. But we want Mexico to do great. But, you know, it's going to be a two way highway doesn't it? It has to be a two way highway.So, we're going to bring back our car production, we're going to win Michigan, we're going to win Ohio -- we're way up in Ohio by the way and we're way up in Arizona from what I hear.We're going to renegotiate NAFTA. And if we don't get the deal we want, we will withdraw immediately from NAFTA and start all over again and we will create a much better trade deal.You know, NAFTA is under a different tax system. They're under a VAT system, and the deal is defective and it's been now away from many years. And when we sell into Mexico, we get charged a big fat tax. And when they sell into us, they get no tax, it's a defective deal. That's why you don't see deals coming the opposite direction.So it's been so defective, why didn't like people like Hillary Clinton and these people in office renegotiate that deal with Mexico right away, OK? Because you can't have the deal that way.We're also going standup to foreign currency manipulation, which is the single greatest threat that we have on our trade and there is nobody, nobody that does it better than China, they are grand masters. And we're going to apply tariffs and taxes to countries that cheat, it's very simple.Jobs will leave from other countries and come back into the United States, believe me.Factories will come rushing home, our schools and communities will be revitalized and our poorest citizens will get new jobs at higher pay and have brand new hope for their lives.And I want to thank -- she's here some place, Governor Jan, where is Jan? Where is the hell is -- thank you governor, thank you. Well, that's a good group with Sheriff Joe and that's a good -- and Jeff and everybody, thank you and Joe, thank you. She's been such a great supporter right from the beginning and I want to thank her really, thank you.But to be a rich nation, we must also be a secure nation. Security begins at the border, right Joe?A nation that doesn't control its borders is not a nation at all. A country that doesn't protect its people just isn't a country. Our government that doesn't put its own and remember this, when a government doesn't put its own citizens first, this is a government, unworthy and unfit to lead its people, totally.Look at the crime, look at the drugs, look at how our youth has being poisoned -- just poisoned and not only our youth but look at our youth is being poisoned by the drugs that flowing from our border. We're going to stop that so fast, your heads will spin.Here are some heartbreaking examples of how our government has failed our citizens. Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. She wants totally open. Come on in everybody, come on in. Enjoy yourself. Pickup your health care. Pick up your health care better than your veterans, better than our veterans in many cases. This includes incredible American lives like 21-year-old, Sarah Ruth whose parents I've gotten to know and they are incredible people. Heartbreaking.The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered federal custody and then was released into a United States community under the policies of Barack Obama, Hillary Clinton and this administration. He was released again after the crime and now he's at large and nobody has any clues to where he is. Sarah had graduated from college just a day before, with the 4.0 great average, she was number one in her class and she died a day after graduation, killed by a vicious animal that should never ever have been out.Also among the victims of the Obama-Clinton open border policy was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21-year-old convenient store clerk from Mesa, Arizona. He was murdered by the illegal immigrant gang member and -- by the way day one, the gang members, the drug lords all of -- they're out, they're out, day one.They're going back to the country that they came from which Hillary Clinton refuse to do. She refused to pressure those countries to take these bad ones back because when we brought them back, they say we don't want them, we don't want killers, we don't want them. She refused to take them, she refuse to press and -- so we take them back, OK? Those countries will take these people back so fast, you will not even believe it, OK?But he was killed by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burgling and other things who also had been released from federal custody. Another victim is Kate Steinle, gunned down in a sanctuary city, city, San Francisco by an illegal immigrant deported five previous times. Sanctuary cities will be defunded quickly, quickly.Then there's a case of 90-year-old, Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten, savagely attacked and left to bleed to death in his home. The perpetuators were illegal immigrants with criminal records who did not meet the Obama administrations priorities for removal, even though everybody said, get them out and get them out fast."In California, a 64-year-old Air Force veteran, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer violently. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions but for whatever reason and nobody knows why, was never deported.Also in California, my good friend, Jamiel Shaw, great guy, many of you have gotten to know Jamiel, lost his amazing son at the age of 17. Great football player, wonderful student, going to get scholarships to colleges. He was walking home to see his father. He was viscously shot and killed by an illegal immigrant with three gun charges as well as battery of a police officer but he was not deported from our country and nobody knows what's even happening with him.At 2011 report from the government accountability office found that illegal immigrants and other non-citizens in our prisons and jails together had around 25,000 homicide arrests to their name, homicide arrests. There are more than two million criminal aliens in this country right now. When I am president, we are getting them out and we are getting our fast.We are going to build the wall, believe me. Believe me.OK. Are you ready? Who is going to pay for the wall?Who?They are. They don't know it yet but they are. And you have to understand, they're great people, the Mexican people are incredible people. Their leaders are much smarter than our leaders.And between the border and trade, tremendous advantage is taken of the United States, tremendous. Joe knows that, everybody knows that. And we don't do anything about it, we -- because we're lead by people that don't know honestly during competent, they don't know what they're doing.Now, we have a massive trade deficit with Mexico. When you look at the trade deficit and then when I say they're going to pay for wall, you'll understand that exactly, because the wall is peanuts compared to the trade deficit that we have. So when you have that kind of a trade deficit, and you want something built, it's going to be pay for in one form or other by Mexico. You can count on it 100 percent.On top of that, illegal immigration cost our country more than $113 billion a year for the money we're going to spend on illegal immigration. Over the next 10 years, we can provide one million at risk -- and you know, this is something I think that's very important -- at risks students with a voucher, with an education, we can help rebuild our inner cities, we can do so much with that money, so much.At the same time, our country is being infiltrated right now by terrorist. We take in thousands and thousands of people into our country, we have no idea who they are, where they come from.Just yesterday, an immigrant from Bangladesh was charged in another plot having to do with ISIS. Hundreds of immigrants from high risk regions have been implicated in terrorism inside the United States since 9/11.The terrorist who planted the bombs in New York and New Jersey and who carried out the mall stabbings in Minnesota were foreign nationals admitted into our country, as was the mall shooter in Washington. Or look at the cases like the Boston bombers here in the Asylum. Or the San Bernardino shooter, you remember the San Bernardino where they gave a baby, they gave a shower for the baby, the same people that gave that beautiful shower for the baby -- for their baby were shot and killed and they were here on a fiance visa from Saudi Arabia.Whoever heard of a fiance visa? And she probably radicalized him or the Orlando shooter, the son of a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan. I'm going to keep the terrorist the hell out of our country.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees. Hillary is for open borders, just come on in folks, come right on in, just take whatever you want.I'm not running to be president of the world, I'm running to be president of the United States, America First.By the way, the press is being driven crazy, they are being driven crazy. They have never seen anything like it. They are not happy, they have never seen anything like what's happening right now in our country and it's a great thing, it's a great thing that's happening. They have never seen anything like it. Don't we love it? Don't we love it?We are going to build the wall, we are going to enforce our laws and we are going to keep our people safe. The chaos, the violence and the crime will come to an end beginning in January of 2017.We are going to end the government corruption. Hillary Clinton put her emails on an illegal server, open to foreign hack. Then she bleached and destroyed 33,000 emails after the subpoena. She lied to congress under oath and her staffers took the Fifth Amendment and got immunity deals. It's worse than Watergate, it's worse than Watergate.The investigation of Hillary Clinton was rigged, it's a sham and it's one of the saddest things that's I've ever seen take place in our country, and now she's running for president of the United States.We become a banana republic and today, we learn that the FBI made a deal, and it was a side deal, that people didn't know about with Clinton's top aids that it was OK for them to destroy their laptops, this was just reported.Hillary Clinton is the ring leader of a criminal enterprise that has corrupted our government at the highest levels and the American people have one chance to stop what's going on, send your ballots in now and get out and vote on November 8th.Get out and vote, you have to vote.Don't let them take this away from us, folks, because they may talk about this great movement like they have never seen. But you know what, if we lose, it was a big fat waste of time, energy and at least in my case a lot of money I think.We're also going to fix our inner cities. Forty-five percent of African-American youth who live in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth don't have jobs. More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago since the beginning of the -- think of that, since January, 3,000 people have been shot, Obama's hometown. Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore and all other city is a disaster.Democrats like Hillary Clinton have run the inner cities for 50, 60, 70 and in some cases even more than 100 years. They have produced only more joblessness, failing schools and rising crime. They've horribly failed and abused our African-American and Latino communities.To those African-Americans and Latinos suffering in our country, I say very simply, what the hell do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump. I am going to fix it. I am going to fix it.It can't get much worse and I say it, what do you have to lose, I'm going to fix it.To everyone in the country, I can almost say the same thing. You look at our massive debt, you look at our depleted military, greatest people on earth are depleted military. You look at how badly our vets have been treated. You look at what they want to do with our Second Amendment. You look at so many things. You look at our borders that are -- in some cases, non-existing. And I could say the same thing, what the hell do you have to lose?You look at $400 million in cash being paid. You look at the $1.7 billion because when they said $400 million, they made a mistake. You look at the people that will going to be deported, 800 people, they were going to be deported for very serious reasons but they made a mistake. And instead of deporting these people, guess what, they made them proudly United States citizens.But like the $400 million in cash, can you imagine what that looks like? But like they were wrong with that, they were wrong in the 800 people because now they are saying it was 1,700 people that were going to be deported and are now United States citizens.So I really do, I say to you folks too, I don't want to be negative, what the hell do you have to lose?We will have safe communities for everyone. School choice for your children. We're going to -- by the way end Common Core and bring education local.We're going to make great trade deals that bring jobs into our country and not out of our country, they're going to come into our country, folks, into our country. Everyone will be included in the new American dream. Here are the amazing things that we're going to do for our country starting in 2017. We are going to have the biggest job creating tax cut since Ronald Reagan and in some ways even bigger.Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes very substantial. We are going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation which is choking our companies and she wants to increase regularities. Stop the jobs from leaving our country and going to other countries. If they want to do that, it's fine, but there will retribution, there will be consequences to be paid. This is not going to be very easy or cheap for them to send their product back into our country after all those people are let go. We are going to repeal and replace job killing Obamacare.We are going to make childcare affordable. We are going to save our Second Amendment which is under siege.We are going to support the great man and woman of law enforcement.We will rebuild our depleted military and take great care finally of our veterans.And we're going to appoint justices of the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.We are going to rebuild America. We are going to revitalize America. We are going to unite America. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You're going to remember this day. We are going to make history. This is a movement like nobody has ever seen before.History will be made, you'll going to look back at this event and you'll going to look back more importantly on November 8th when you cast your vote and you are going to say, it is the single greatest vote that you have ever cast, that is the most important vote that you have ever cast.You are going to be proud of your country again and you're going to be proud hopefully of your president again.A vote for me is a vote for change. And a vote for me is really and truly a vote for you. That's what it is.You're voting to believe in yourselves, a vote for common sense government solutions to problems. That's what we need. It's a vote for jobs, it's a vote for a government of, by, and for the people.Altogether, we are going to make America wealthy again. We are going to make America strong again. We are going to make America safe again. And we are going to make America great again. We love you. November 8th, God bless you. God bless you. Thank you, everybody.This is something.This is great. Wow. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you very much. I hope everybody way up on the hill -- can you hear me up there? Can you hear me?Wow. Amazing. And we have crowds like this all over our great country. It's a movement like nobody's ever seen before. And on November 8th, we must get out to complete the movement and then the work begins. OK? And then the work begins.Thank you, everybody, very much.It's great to be here in the city of Henderson. I know Henderson very well, a lot of friends.You know, a fabulous, fabulous state that we all love -- this is a special state. I've certainly spent a lot of money in this state if it's not. And we have right down the road a very successful hotel, Trump International, and it's been great.Really great. So I want to thank everybody.In 34 days, we're going to win this state, and we're going to win back the White House.So, how many of you watched the vice presidential debate last night?Mike Pence did an incredible job. And I'm getting a lot of credit, because that's really my first so-called choice. That was my first hire, as we would say in Las Vegas.And I'll tell you, he's a good one. He was phenomenal. He was cool. He was smart. He was -- I mean, you just take a look at him. He was meant to be doing what he's doing, and we are very, very proud of Governor Mike Pence.Thank you, Mike Pence.And last night, America also got to look first-hand at my judgment, and that was judgment. You know, you need judgment for people, for deals. We don't do deals like the Iran deal. We don't do deals like that anymore, folks. We don't do deals like that -- $1.7 billion in cash, and we're in Las Vegas. When you hear $1.7 billion, I think this whole state would be filled up to the roof. Whoever heard of things like what's going on? Unbelievable. Well, Mike laid out big and bold solutions for America. His opponent talked only of small and petty distractions. Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and hasn't fixed anything.She goes around -- we'll do this, we'll do that, we'll do this -- all these things. It's all wonderful. The problem is why didn't she do them? In fact, she's just made things worse. She failed in upstate New York as a senator, promising to create -- in order to get elected -- 200,000 jobs, but manufacturing is down more than 40 percent and the jobs have left. It's just the opposite.She failed overseas, producing only death and destruction. She unleashed ISIS, destabilized Iraq, Syria, Libya and put Iran on to the path of nuclear weapons. In less than 10 years now, they will have nuclear weapons. One of the dumbest deals ever made, whether it's countries or any kind of a deal you can think of, one of the dumbest deals ever made.At home, Hillary Clinton failed Latinos and African-Americans, producing only more poverty in the inner cities, and you see that. You see that all -- wherever you go to the inner cities, nothing happens, it never happens, it's called give me your vote and then they don't come back. Four years later, they come back.She's merely the vessel for the global special interests bleeding our country dry. They are bleeding our country. I'm running to represent Americans, and we are going to make America rich again. We're not rich. We're a debtor nation right now.I'm going to end illegal immigration.Stop the massive inflow of refugees, keep jobs from pouring out of our country, renegotiate our totally disastrous trade deals and massively reduce taxes and regulations on our workers and our businesses.My economic agenda will be very, very simple. It's called jobs, jobs, jobs.Our jobs are all leaving. The problems we face as a country are immense, and it's going to take bold action to turn things around. We need change. We need change.Right now, we owe $20 trillion debt, $20 trillion dollars. It doubled under President Obama.Our infrastructure is like that of a Third World country. The homicide rate last year experienced the biggest single year increase in more than 45 years. Does anybody know that? Biggest increase in homicide in 45 years. Our police are underfunded, understaffed and under-supported, and Hillary Clinton basically accuses our police of all being racists.Our border is wide open, and drugs and criminal cartels are pouring into our country on an hourly basis.Thousands of refugees are being admitted with no way to screen them and are instantly made eligible for welfare and free healthcare, even as our own veterans, our great, great veterans, die while they're waiting online for medical care that they desperately need.Our veterans will be taken care of like they've never been taken care of before.Do we have some veterans in the group? Stand up. Stand up, veterans.Wow.We have such tremendous support from the veterans group, from law enforcement, veterans groups from all over the country. We just had the endorsement from the Fraternal Order of Police, which represents massive amounts of police. Almost every police group, almost every veteran group.And then I saw today -- I left the room and I saw a commercial where it was really a nasty commercial. Totally made up about me with vets. There's nobody that loves the vets more or respects the vets more. They're spending hundreds of millions of dollars on false commercials, and it's a disgrace. So what we'll do, I guess we'll sue them. Let's sue them, right? Let's sue them. It's unbelievable.They say, let's see where's Trump doing well? He's doing well with the vets, oh let's do a commercial on the vets. And whatever's unpopular, they'll just put it in. Let me tell you. We're going to take care of our vets like you've never been taken care of before. Remember that.The federal budget is a total disaster. Our State Department, mostly under the watch of Crooked Hillary Clinton, misplaced or lost $6 billion. Can you imagine this? They lost it. You know, you lose a couple of bucks. They lost $6 billion in taxpayer funds.We have the worst so-called recovery by far since the Great Depression. We're a nation totally divided with race riots in the streets. Our college students graduate loaded with debt, only to discover they can't find jobs or certainly not the jobs they want or not the jobs they were trained for and worked so hard to get. Those jobs have left.Our allies aren't paying their fair share. Foreign countries like Russia and China do not respect us. Do you ever see Hillary Clinton when she wants to talk tough about Putin? They say, Donald Trump loves Putin.I don't love. I don't hate. We'll see how it works. We'll see. Maybe we'll have a good relationship. Maybe we'll have a horrible relationship. Maybe we'll have a relationship right in the middle. I can say this. If we got along with Russia and Russia went out with us and knocked the hell out of ISIS, that's OK with me, folks. That's OK with me.So our taxpayers and us, all of us as citizens, are sending troops and foreign aid all over the world, even as their own cities can't provide the most basic services.We go to some of these Middle Eastern locations and we'll build a school and they blow it up, and we build it again, and they blow it up. But when we want a school here or in Brooklyn, New York, or in Los Angeles or someplace else, we don't have the funds. We've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East, think of that. We could have rebuilt our country twice if we knew what the hell we were doing, and we're not respected at all.America needs a turnaround, America needs a comeback, America needs a change, and that's why I'm running.Thank you. On November 8th, we're going to show the whole world that America is back, bigger and better and stronger than ever, ever, ever before; stronger than ever before.First, we're going to repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.President Obama said if you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. That was a lie. He promised his plan would reduce premiums by $2,500 per person. That was a lie; instead they surged to much more than $5,000. And you know it because you're all here, you're all witnesses.Now, it happens. Yesterday, right? Bill Clinton yesterday, they're so angry at him. They scolded him yesterday, he was scolded. Did everybody hear what happened yesterday?So, you know, they're always telling me, oh, if you say something, just apologize. Just apologize. I think that President Obama should apologize for Obamacare.And I think that Hillary Clinton should apologize for pursuing Obamacare and she wants to make it even worse than it is right now. We're going to repeal it and we're going to replace it with much less expensive and much better care.Now this is essential for your great state and my great state. Because Obamacare, the majority of the counties in your state have only one insurer to choose from.Did you read that this morning in your good paper? Good paper. Owned by a great guy. Sheldon! Sheldon, Sheldon Adelson. And a great supporter of Israel, Sheldon Adelson.Great supporter. There's only one way to stop Obamacare: vote for Donald J. Trump. Very simple. Very simple.Very simple.It's a very simple way to do it. You got to get out there November 8th. I say kiddingly, but I mean it. I don't care how sick you are.I don't care if you just came back from the doctor and he gave you the worst possible prognosis, meaning it's over. You won't be around in two weeks. Doesn't matter.Hang out until November 8th. Get out and vote. And then all we're going to say is we love you and we will remember you always. Get out and vote.And don't let the other sides take this election away from us because this is the last chance we get. And I see Elvis back there. Elvis. This is the last chance we get.The deadline to register to vote is October 8th in your state. So you can do that early, this way you do not have to wait around until November 8th if you are the person seeing the doctor, right?No, we have all great, healthy people. You have to be healthy because Obamacare doesn't work so you have to have -- you really have no choice. That's the only thing good about Obamacare is you have to maintain your health, which is good psychologically to think that way, because Obamacare will not be there. It is a disaster.Early voting begins on the 22nd, fixing our trade deals will be the foundation of our economic revival. China, Japan, and Europe are printing huge sums of money. The devaluation of currencies is staggering as to what it represents to our country, our businesses, our citizens, and our jobs.Every time we start making progress, China devalues its currency and we go right back to the drawing board. Because you can't compete against that. It's cheating.We are not going to level playing field and our politicians do not understand what is going on. They really do not get it. And the ones that do get it are taken care of with political contributions so they close their eyes. We're going to do something much different. And I am spending my own money on my campaign. I'll tell you. I'm spending a fortune.One of the very big pundits, very respected, actually very liberal, said you know what you've done has never been done before. And it makes no difference if you win or lose this movement will go down in history. I said, no, you don't understand. I like to agree with you. But if I don't win, this will be the greatest waste of time, money and energy in my lifetime by a factor of 100.Because if we don't win, we can't change things. We can't bring back common sense. We can't strengthen our military which is so depleted. We can't save our 2nd Amendment, so many different things. So we have to win. We have to win. Our jobs are being lost ---- in massive numbers and we're not making things relatively speaking in America anymore. Too much is being made in other countries. When I'm President, we will start making things in America again.Our nation has lost one-third of it's manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. You know it was Clinton that signed it, a lot of people don't know that. One of the worst trade deals in the history of the world. The deal was also supported very strongly by Hillary Clinton.Hillary's Korea deal, South Korea, cost us another 100,000 jobs. Remember that? It was supposed to be a good deal. It cost us jobs, tremendous numbers of jobs. And South Korea, like almost every other country, is laughing at how stupid we are.Since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed deal 70,000 factories, when I saw 70,000, I said, please go back it can't be possible. Can't be possible. I figured maybe 700, 7,000. 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States.Can you believe this? 70,000. That's 15 factories closing a day on average. We are living through the greatest job theft in the history of the world. Our jobs are being stolen by countries with much smarter leadership than ours. Not going to happen anymore folks. Not going to happen anymore.As the factories leave, our money leaves with them. Stores close. Schools suffer. The tax base erodes. Wages fall and the quality of life totally declines. Real cash wages for many workers today are lower than they were in 1973. I usually say 18 years, but it goes back much further. People think of this, people are working harder today.Now the only thing that I can say to make you feel better, is I'm also older and I'm also working the hardest I've ever worked in my life doing this. This is the hardest I've ever worked in my life.It's true. That's true. This is work. Although it's like love, but it's work. But we're getting there, we're gonna make America great again, it's gonna be worth it, OK?We rebuild other countries at the expense of our own. Skyscrapers going up in Beijing while plants and factories crumble in the United States. Companies like Carrier, General Electric, Motorola, Mattel, Fiat-Chrysler and so many others -- I could go by the hundreds -- are moving their jobs to Mexico and other countries.And now Ford has announced, two weeks ago, it's moving all of its small car production to Mexico on top of the massive plant that they announced three years ago that's going to cost $2 billion that's now complete.And then you wonder why we're doing well in Michigan? And Ohio? Because I've been saying this for five years. I haven't been saying this for the last two weeks, like Hillary, who doesn't know what's happening. I've been saying this for five years and the people of Michigan know that and the people of Ohio know that.And that's why we're way up in Ohio and that's why we're doing so well in Michigan, a state that normally a Republican wouldn't do that well in. But they're losing all their jobs to Mexico and other places.We're going to -- well, you ready for this one folks? We're going to renegotiate NAFTA ---- and if we don't get the deal we want we will withdraw from NAFTA and start all over again making better deals for our workers. It's going to be America First. It's America First. No more like, let's take care of everybody else except ourselves.We're also going to stand up to foreign currency manipulation and apply tariffs and taxes to the countries that cheat. That way we neutralize, that way our businesses can compete and we won't lose our jobs.We will also stop the Transpacific Partnership, the deal she called the gold standard, Hillary Clinton said. And then during the debate she lied, and she said, "I never said that." And then they actually fact-checked her and they said, "Trump was right." Finally I'm right. Finally.Every time I made a statement this character challenged me. She can say whatever she wants. Say are you going to check that statement? So they check the statement. She called it the gold standard. Let me tell you, TPP will be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing's like NAFTA, but it'll take your jobs our of your state, it'll take them out of Ohio, and Michigan, and Pennsylvania -- TPP is a disaster.And they don't cover currency manipulation. Because our politicians didn't want to put the necessary language into the documents, and the documents are over 5,000 pages long, and nobody from our country practically has even read that. Don't let it happen. And if I win, forget it. And we're gonna have trade. But instead of having trade deals with all of these different countries, that's so complicated, we'll do trade one on one. One, one, one, one, one, and if they don't treat us right, we send them a letter of default.And by the time letter of default and "now you can't do that, " because you've got to go through "this looks like a jigsaw puzzle." The backers of the TPP have donated heavily to Hillary Clinton and their wish is her command. She's an insider fighting only for herself and for her donors. I'm an outsider fighting for you, that's what I'm doing this fall.We will stop the foreign cheating, the product dumping and the one sided trade deals. This stuff will not happen anymore folks; we're not going to have a country left. We'll lower taxes on American businesses from 35 percent to 15 percent and many small businesses will file as individuals and pay only 12 percent, a massive tax cut.On top of that, we will have the largest regulatory reform in American history, our regulations are a disaster; they're putting businesses out of business. Our tax, trade, energy and regulatory reforms will help us reach 4 percent growth and create at least 25 million new jobs within a decade. America will become the great jobs magnet of the world.And I will the greatest jobs President that God ever created, I'll tell you that that will happen.That will happen. Factories will come rushing in, our schools and communities will be revitalized, and our poorer citizens will get new jobs and higher pay and new hope for their life.But to be a rich nation, we must also be a secure nation. Security begins at the border, you understand.Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama.This includes incredible Americans like 21 years Sarah Root, unbelievable person. The man who killed arrived at the border, entered federal custody and then was released immediately into the U.S. community under the immigration policies of Obama -- Clinton.He was released again and again after crime, and now he's at large. Sarah graduated from college with a 4.0 grade point index, number one in her class the day before she was viciously killed. Also among the victims of the Obama -- Clinton open border policies was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21 year old convenience store clerk from Mesa, Arizona. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member, previously convicted of burglary who had also been released from federal custody.Then there's the case of 90 year old Earl Olander who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home.The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records a mile long, but who did not meet the Obama administration's priority for removal.In California a 64-year-old Air Force veteran, Marilyn Farris, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions, but for whatever reason was never deported.Also in California, my good friend, great guy, Jamiel Shaw, lost his amazing son at age 17. He was viciously shot and killed by an illegal immigrant for no reason whatsoever.The killer had three gun charges as well as battery of police officers prior to the shooting, but he had not been deported. They just did not want to do it.I'd like to invite up to the stage now some of the families from the incredible Remembrance Project who are here today and these are amazing, amazing people.They've lost their loved ones for no reason.Mike! Come out here, Mike. Come out here, Mike. How about -- do you want to say something on behalf of your boy?Thank you.Amazing. And in story after story and it's -- this is just a small group of the people, but I tell them every time I'm with them. I say, your loved ones will not have died in vain. You know what I mean.Incredible people, the Remembrance. I will tell you, it's incredible people. It's a tough thing to go through.There are more than 2 million criminal aliens with criminal convictions in the country right now and more who have committed crimes, you would not believe it. But who have escaped the law entirely.When I am president, we are getting them out of our country and were getting them out immediately, quickly fast.And a lot of the countries from where they came won't take them back. They don't want them back. They're killers, they're this, they're that. We don't want them back. And under Hillary Clinton's State Department she said -- Oh, they won't take them back, huh?Under a Trump administration I promise you, every single one of them will be taken back gladly. Gladly. OK? Gladly. They don't want to take them back, so they're on our streets, killing people.All Americans living lovely in this country, including millions of wonderful, patriotic, hard-working immigrants are entitled to have their jobs and wages and their security totally protected.The borders around our nation are for the benefit of all people living here today -- everybody. And those borders are erased -- it's often done by the lawful immigrants already here. And if you look at what's going on with the borders, and very simply, if they are erased, and if we have no borders, we really have no country. And that's really what's happened.And I have to tell you I've been endorsed by the border patrol agents, 16,500. By ICE, two days ago -- ICE. First time they've ever endorsed anybody for president. I was endorsed by Sheriff Joe. Sheriff Joe knows the border. He knows the border. We love Sheriff Joe.At the same time our country is being infiltrated by terrorists. Just two days ago an immigrant from Bangladesh in yet another ISIS plot. Hundreds of immigrants from high-risk regions have been implicated in terrorism inside the United States since 9/11.The terrorists who planted the bombs in New York and New Jersey last week, and who carried out the mall stabbing in Minnesota two weeks ago, were foreign nationals admitted into our country as was the mall shooter in Washington State.No more folks. No more.Now the media doesn't want to talk about this. They really don't. Just like they don't want to show the crowd. Just like they don't want to show the crowd.The never want to show the crowd.Never ever.Did you ever go home and you watch and you hear this roar, it sounds like you're at Ohio State football game -- so you know there's thousands and thousands. We were yesterday in Arizona.We had a line that was a mile and a half long trying to get in. It's incredible. We were in Colorado the day before. We had a line -- you wouldn't believe. The stadiums we fill up. The arenas that we fill up. And they never take the camera off my face. Never.People say how was the crowd? I say didn't you see? Oh I loved your speech. But didn't you see the crowd? No I heard but they never, ever show the crowd.And that's for good reason. They don't want to show the crowds. Because nobody's ever had crowds like this, and it's not me, it's you. This is a movement like never before, remember that.And believe me the media which is totally dishonest is a big, big part of the problem that our country is having.These are really dishonest people.You watch the Clinton news network, CNN. It's a joke. It's actually a joke.It's a joke. And I think most people are starting to understand it. The good news, their ratings are bing. The Boston bombers were here on asylum. The San Bernardino shooter was here through a fiance visa. Sounds so nice, doesn't it? A fiance visa. Oh, coming in to get married, from Saudi Arabia, right?Came in, probably radicalized him, went out, killed 14 people, that shortly before gave them a party honoring their new child. Shot them. Killed them. Many wounded. The Orlando shooter was the son of a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan.I'm going to keep the terrorists out of our country.Not going to have them.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees.She's for open borders. Remember this, I'm not running to be president of the world. I'm running to be president of the United States and we're all going to protect each other.And we are going to make, I say it again, and I'll say it again and again, we are going to make America First again. Remember that. America First. We're going to make America First.We're going to build the wall. And we're going to enforce our laws. And we're going to keep our people safe. I have a simple message for the cartels, the gang members, the drug dealers, preying on our citizens, destroying our youth. Your days are numbered. Your reign of crime will very soon come crashing to a very ugly end. You're getting the hell out of this country.We're also going to end government corruption. Hillary Clinton put her emails on an illegal secret server open to foreign hackers.Then she bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after getting a congressional subpoena. You can't even do that in a private case.She lied to Congress under oath, and her staffers took the Fifth Amendment and got immunity deals.Hillary Clinton is the ringleader of a criminal enterprise and the only way to deliver justice is to mail in your ballots. Go out there get them done. November 8th, get in. We're also -- we're going to end this, folks. We're going to end it. We can't let this happen. We're like a third world country. We can't let this go on.I've never seen anything like it in my life and neither have you. We're also going to fix our inner cities. And help our Latino- American citizens and our African-American citizens. we are going to help. It's time.Forty-five percent of African-American youth live in poverty. 58 percent of African-American youth don't have jobs. More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago, Obama's hometown, since the beginning of the year. That's since January. Not a long time. Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C., and more than 60 percent in Baltimore.The Democrats, like Hillary Clinton, have run the inner cities for 50, 60, 70 even 100 years unbroken. They've produced only more joblessness, failing schools and rising crime.To those African-Americans suffering in our country, I say, what the hell do you have to lose? I will fix it. Vote for me. I'm going to fix it. What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose?Nothing to lose. They come in for your vote. They get your vote. Then they do nothing. I'm also going to fight to help millions of Latinos trapped in poverty and to help their children grow up in safety and in peace. Which they're not doing now.Poor communities will see a massive infusion of new small business come pouring in, with new high-paying beautiful jobs.I'm also going to fight to provide school choice to every low income, African-American and Latino child in this country.I want to put every American child on the ladder to success. That means a great education and a high-paying job that you love.Here is some of the more amazing things we're going to do for our country starting in 2017. We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan and maybe even bigger than that, looks like.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary regulation which is choking our businesses and killing our jobs. She wants to raise your taxes and she wants far more regulation. We're going to end education, we're going to end common core.We're bringing our education local. We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.Bill Clinton's said we have to do it. So we'll have to listen to him. Oh, he's suffering now. And all he did is tell the truth.We're going to make childcare affordable. We're going to save our 2nd Amendment, which is under siege.We are going to support the men and women of law enforcement.We're going to rebuild our very depleted military and we are going to take care of our great veterans.We are going to appoint Justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.This election day, you have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman, and child in this country.On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington, D.C. will come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.The failed and corrupt political establishment will be replaced with a new government of, by, and for the people.I am going to fight for every last citizen in this land, and I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we stated working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag. Can you imagine?Can you imagine? You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life, you're going to remember this day.This is a movement like nobody has ever seen before. Even Bill O'Reilly said it's the single greatest political phenomena of his lifetime, that's good.That's good. And many others -- and many that dislike me say the same thing. We're going to make history together, you're going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote that you've ever cast for anyone at anytime.A vote for Donald Trump is a vote for change, and a vote for me is really a vote for you; you're voting for you, believe me.It's the way I look at it.You're voting to believe in yourselves, you're voting to believe in your country. All together, we are going to make America wealthy again. We're going to make America strong again. We're going to make America safe again. We're going to make America great again.I love you, thank you, God bless you. God bless you, go out and vote November 8th, thank you. Thank you. God bless you, everyone.We love Nevada and we love Reno. Thank you! Thank you, everybody!Thank you. Boy, this is some crowd.No matter where we go, there's a great movement going on. They've never seen anything like it. We are going to do something very special. In 34 days, we are going to win this state, we are going to win back the White House.America is going to start winning again. We're going to start winning again.We're going to make America rich again. We have no choice, we have to do it if we're going to do what else we have to do. But we're going to make our country rich again. We're not going to let other countries and other leaders take advantage of this country any longer.And all you have to do is take a look at that ridiculous deal we made with Iran, $1.7 billion in cash, $150 billion.We didn't get anything.I'm going to end illegal immigration.Stop the massive inflow of refugees, keep jobs from pouring out of our country, and they are pouring out, renegotiate our disastrous trade deals and massively reduce taxes and regulations.Taxes are too high, the regulations are crazy.Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and she hasn't done a thing. All she does is talk. I keep saying, why don't you change it? You've been there!Let's win November 8th, right? Let's win on November 8th.The problems we face as a country as immense and it's going to take bold action to turn things around. And by the way, didn't Mike Pence do a great job?Great. He's our guy. What a great guy he is, too.Right now, we owe $20 trillion in debt. It doubled under President Obama. Think of it, seven-and-a-half years it doubled.Our infrastructure is like that of a third-world country. The homicide rate last year experienced the biggest, single-year increase in 45 years. Nobody tells you that. Heroin overdoses are surging and meth overdoses in Nevada -- Nevada. And you know what I said? You know what I said? I said when I came out here, I said nobody says it the other way, it has to be Nevada, right?And if you don't say it correctly -- and it didn't happen to me, but it happened to a friend of mine, he was killed.But think of it. Meth overdoses in Nevada are up 22 percent -- 22 percent. Thousands of refugees are being admitted with no way to screen them and are instantly made eligible for welfare and free health care, even as our own veterans die waiting for medical care that they desperately need. Give me a break! We're going to take care of our veterans. We're going to take care of our veterans.Our annual trade deficit with the world is nearly $800 billion a year. Who makes these deals? Who makes these deals?The federal budget is a total and complete disaster. Our State Department, mostly under the watch of Crooked Hillary Clinton, misplaced or lost $6 billion in taxpayer funds. How would you like to misplace $6 million?We have the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression. On top of it all, our taxpaying citizens send troops and foreign aid all over the world, even as their own cities can't provide the most basic of services.America needs a turnaround. America needs a comeback. America needs change.And that change is coming on November 8th, remember. Get out and vote. And you have early balloting here, take advantage of it. You've got to get out and vote, no matter what happens, no matter how bad you feel, no matter what. You've heard me say it, you go to the doctor, he gives you the ultimate bad news, it's over, in four weeks you won't be around. Who cares? November 8th you've got to get out and vote, right? You've got to get out and vote.I'm only kidding. I'm only kidding. I mean, the one problem if you are sick, Obamacare  is no good so that'sSo you have no choice but to stay healthy and that's OK, too. Oh, did Bill Clinton blow it. Oh, did he blow it.We're going to show the whole world that America is back bigger and better and stronger than ever before.The first thing we're going to do is repeal and replace Obamacare.President Clinton has come out and told the truth about Obamacare. In all fairness, he told the truth. Two days ago, Bill Clinton torched President Obama's signature legislation. Remember, Hillary Clinton called Obamacare  one of the greatest accomplishments of the president, of the Democratic Party and of our country. Except it doesn't work, it's a disaster. It's costing everybody, including our country, a fortune.Bill has a different view. Oh, did he suffer. Can you imagine when he walked home to that beautiful home in Westchester and he said, oh, Hillary, how was your day?Oh, did he suffer. Bill called it a system, a crazy system and said that it's the craziest thing in the world. People out there, he said, are busting it sometimes 60 hours a week and wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. The people getting killed in this deal are the small-business people and the individuals who make just a bit too much money to get any of these subsidies. This is Bill Clinton.Bill added, he added, this is him, this isn't Trump, this is Bill Clinton, he added it doesn't make any sense and that insurance model it just doesn't work.Oh, can you imagine what was going on? And a big part of her campaign is Obamacare, a big part. And she wants to double up and double down and she wants it to go. I mean, this woman doesn't know what the hell she's doing, folks. There's only way to stop Obamacare  and that's to vote for Donald J. Trump. I'll stop it. We'll stop it.The deadline to register to vote by mail is October 8th. The deadline to register to vote online or on person or you could also say in person... is October 18th. So do it. Do it. Most importantly, November 8th get out there, but do it. And early voting begins on the 22nd. With your votes, you will also be voting to protect the Second Amendment rights of every law-abiding gun owner in Nevada.Hillary wants to effectively abolish the Second Amendment by overturning D.C. versus Heller, and thus declaring that there's not an individual right to keep and bear arms. You know, your Second Amendment, folks, is under siege. I will hope that you vote for us.And remember, the Supreme Court judges, one vote and wave good- bye to so much of what you need and gotten used to and what's a real part of our country. We are going to conserve your land and your natural resources for hunters, anglers and all who enjoy the outdoors, like my sons.Fixing our trade deals will be the foundation of our economic revival. My economic agenda can be summed up, and I think you know what it is, right? What is my economic? What is it?Jobs! Jobs! I don't have to say it, it's jobs. Our economic agenda in this room is jobs. We're tired of seeing our jobs disappear, our companies leave. They go to Mexico, they go to other places. Not going to happen anymore, folks. China, Japan and Europe are printing huge sums of money, the devaluation of currencies is staggering as to what it represents for our country, our businesses, our citizens and our workers. We're not on a level playing field and our politicians don't understand what the hell is going on. They don't understand it. They've been talking for years and years and years about stopping jobs from moving out, right? And you have been big-league hurt right here, big-league. You know what I'm talking about.And if somebody wants to leave your area, your state or any other state and think they're going with their company to Mexico and they're going to make that product in Mexico and sell it back into the United States, they can forget about it, they can forget about it.And we'll tell them right up front enjoy your stay in Mexico or wherever you're planning to go. But if you think you're going to make an air conditioning unit, Carrier, you know about Carrier, they're moving to Mexico, they think they're going to make air conditioners and just send them right back into our country, no tax, no tariff, 1,400 people gone, not going to happen because I'm going to just say very simply you've got a 35 percent tax to pay. And you know what? When that happens, number one, if you say it before they make their deal or before they move, they're not moving, almost a hundred percent. And bottom line, if they do move, you know what? We're going to make a lot of money so that's OK, too.You know, when I won the state of Indiana I had tremendous numbers of people who were fired from Carrier following me around. And we had the great coach Bobby Knight, great coach and he endorsed me. Getting Bobby Knight's endorsement in Indiana was not bad. Do we agree? I mean, it was over, we won in a landslide.But it was also around the time that people started hearing so much about Carrier moving to Mexico. And I will tell you something, that we cannot let this continue to happen with our companies. We are losing so many companies and we just can't allow it to happen.Our nation has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton's NAFTA deal. He signed it. He signed that deal. It's one of the worst deals ever, ever, every made in terms of trade. And Hillary Clinton supported it totally.Hillary's career deal, the deal she made for South Korea, cost us 100,000 jobs and it was supposed to be a positive. And we all knew that it's never a positive.Since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary -backed disaster, 70,000 -- think of that, I thought it was seven, I thought it was 700 -- 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States. Think of that. That's 15 factory closings a day, on average, because these politicians make these stupid deals and they have no idea. And the ones that do are taken care of by donors and special interests that want this happen, OK?The jobs are leaving your state, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Ohio, New Hampshire, Michigan, Illinois, Virginia, all over and all across the country they're leaving. I'm going to stop the jobs from leaving our country. I'm going to bring millions of new jobs back into our country as sure as you're standing there today.It's going to be a new day in America and it's not going to be very long. We have a little ways to wait. We win on November 8th. In January you're going to see a change like you've never seen before.And right now as we speak, although I think they're getting a little bit nervous because polls came out about an hour ago, people are starting to get a little bit nervous, especially the media. They're saying, what's going on?What's going on? I wish those cameras would turn around and show the people in this room. What's going on, they're saying.They never show the crowds, only when there's a protester and we have very few protesters, because the fact is that Bernie Sanders, their people had some passion, nobody has passion for Hillary, nobody, nobody. That guy had passion for Trump. No, nobody has passion for Hillary.For too long we've rebuilt other countries at the expense of our own. Look at what China's done to it. Skyscrapers going up in Beijing while plants and factories crumble all over the United States. Companies like Carrier, General Electric, Motorola, Mattel, Fiat Chrysler and so many others are moving their jobs to Mexico and other countries all over the world.And now Ford, you saw that two weeks ago, just announced it's moving all of its small-car production to Mexico also, and that's after two years ago they built a $2 billion plant to build other things. And I think that's one of the reasons we're doing so well in Michigan and Ohio. Believe me, we're doing great in Ohio, we're five points up, and we're doing very well in Michigan.We are going to renegotiate NAFTA, perhaps the worst trade deal ever made in the history not of this country, in the history of the world. And if we don't get the deal we want, we will withdraw from NAFTA and start all over and get a much, much better deal than we ever had before, a two-lane highway.We're also going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent. And we will have the largest regulatory reform in American history.Taxes too high, companies forced out, people losing their jobs, we can't compete, the taxes are too high. We're one of the highest- tax nation in the world, really the highest tax if you think about it. And we're going to be one of the lower tax. I'd like to say the lowest, we don't be, but one of the lower tax. So we're moving it down from 35 to 15 percent. And you watch the jobs.And you know what? We're doing something else that's maybe even more important in its own way. We're cutting the hell out of unnecessary regulations.Thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs and trillions of dollars in new wealth will come pouring back into the United States. We love the United States. It will be America First. You don't hear that anymore. It will be America First. No longer are we worried about everybody else.Look at this crowd. And we have thousands of people outside trying to get in. It's like this all over. I mean, if you people get out -- you know, it's interesting. We're in New Hampshire for the primaries and people are getting there at 4:00, 5:00, 6:00 in the morning and it was freezing, it was really cold. And the speech was at 7:00 in the evening, can you believe this? And the press was saying, but will they vote? Will they vote? Now, here they're standing in line for 10, 12 hours and they're saying, will they vote for Trump, which will take about three minutes, right? Got to get out and vote, folks.Even here, I know there were people standing here eight hours ago. It's incredible. Thank you.They wanted to get a front-row seat, or stand, they wanted to get a front-row stand. I hope it's worthwhile. I hope it's worthwhile.Thank you. Thank you.But to be a rich nation, we must also be a secure nation. Security begins at the border. Hillary Clinton is unfit to be the president because she supports open borders.And we have to get rid of sanctuary cities. You see what's going on, have to get rid of sanctuary cities.We will build the wall and Mexico will pay for the wall 100 percent. We will build the wall.We will build the wall. You know, I don't know if you heard but ICE, great people, ICE, they're restricted from doing what they want to do. They just announced that they were endorsing Donald Trump, first time they've ever done. First time they've made an endorsement.The Border Patrol agents, incredible people, 16,500 of them announced that they're endorsing us. First time they've ever done that, never endorsed a presidential candidate.Sheriff Joe announced that he's endorsed me. So we're good on the border.We have no choice. We're not good at the border, we have no country, so we have no choice.In fact, as Secretary of State, she allowed, Hillary, thousands of criminal aliens to be freed into our country because their own countries wouldn't take them back. It was her job to cancel visas to countries that refused to take back criminals, criminals coming out of these countries. So we grabbed the criminal, bring them back to that country and they tell the United States we're not taking them back. They didn't want them. What do they want these horror shows for, right? Guess what, folks? With us, when we send them back they're taking them back, not even a doubt.She didn't do it, she didn't do it. But when everybody -- I got all of these endorsements. I'll tell you what, so important, to me it means so much when I get ICE, when I get all of the different endorsements. It's so important. So when ICE endorsed me, when other candidates endorse me, we have tremendous support within the state itself. Hillary Clinton's immigration plans are a disaster. And it's one of the reasons I have these great endorsements.So let me go for one final say, again. This is all a quote from the ICE officers: "Hillary Clinton has promised the most radical immigration proposal in United States history. Her radical plan would result in the loss of thousands of innocent American lives, mass victimization and death from many attempting to immigrate to the United States, the total gutting of interior enforcement, the handcuffing of ICE officers and an uncontrollable flood of illegal immigrants across United States borders." Now, this is coming from ICE people, this is ICE. And these are incredible people.Their quote continues: "She proposes to keep and expand executive amnesty and to expand catch-and-release to expand President Obama's non-enforcement priorities to the point where there is virtually no real immigration enforcement or policing of visa overstays, to support sanctuary cities, to extend Obamacare  to illegal immigrants, to grant amnesty within 100 days " -- think of that, amnesty."And to extend Social Security and Medicare to illegal immigrants through amnesty." Think of it. Plus "a 550 percent increase in admission of Syrian refugees, " who we don't even know where they come from.The ICE officers' endorsement concludes by saying, "Her plan is total amnesty plus open borders." Now, that's a quote from people that know this better than anybody. In short, Hillary's immigrant stance is disqualifying. She should not be the president of the United States. We won't have a country left anymore.The first duty of the president of the United States is to protect the citizens of the United States. Anyone who fails to understand that is unworthy to lead this nation.An amazing statistic is there are more than 2 million criminal aliens with convictions in this country right now and many more criminal illegal immigrants who have committed severe offenses, but escaped the law entirely. When president, I, as president, will be getting them out and getting them out very, very quickly. We have no choice.At the same time, our country is being infiltrated, and that's the word, infiltrated by terrorists. Hundreds of immigrants from high-risk regions have been implicated in terrorism inside the United States since 9/11. Terrorists who planted the bombs in New York, and New Jersey and who carried out the mall stabbing, you saw that, two weeks ago in Minnesota, were foreign nationals admitted into our country as was the mall shooter and all the shootings in Washington state.The Boston bombers were here on asylum. The San Bernardino shooter, she was here on a fiance visa. Isn't that nice? Oh, fiance, wonderful fiance. She came in from Saudi Arabia and probably radicalized the guy. They killed 14 people, remember? And these were people that shortly before gave them a party honoring the birth of their baby. Killed them, many, many wounded, 14 killed. We'll never be the same.The Orlando shooter was the son of a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan, yet Hillary Clinton wants to throw open the doors to hundreds of thousands of refugees from the most dangerous places on our planet, people that, in many cases, don't love us and don't love our values.We have enough problems, folks. We have enough problems. I'm not running to be the president of the world. I'm running to be the president of the United States and protect the people of the United States.We are going to build the wall. We're going to enforce our laws. And we're going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. OK?We're going to end government corruption. Hillary Clinton put her emails on an illegal secret server open to foreign hacking. Then she bleached and destroyed -- you remember that? She bleached, nobody ever heard of it, it's a very, very expensive process -- she bleached and destroyed, remember, unbelievable, 33,000 emails. She deleted them after congressional subpoenas.So she gets a subpoenaSo she gets a subpoena from Congress. I mean, if you got a subpoena from a local person you're dealing with, you do that, you know what happens. She gets this subpoena from Congress and she says, wow, this is bad, delete the 33,000 emails, just tell everybody it had to do with the wedding and yoga class. And I always say, I give five for the wedding and three for yoga class, the rest I want to find out. That is one of the great -- and she got away with it? I don't know, I'm not sure. I don't know if she will get away with that one.She lied to Congress under oath. And her staff has taken the Fifth Amendment and got immunity deals. She had so many immunity deals there was nobody left. Everybody got immunity.In my opinion, it's worse than Watergate. Hillary Clinton put her public office up for sale. And if she ever got the chance, she would put the Oval Office up for sale also.Remember what they used to do with the bedroom in the White House? That was just the beginning. Now we've learned that the FBI made a side deal with Clinton's top aides to destroy their laptops. It's OK to destroy your laptops. It's like a third-world country we're living in. This is like a third-world country.Americans have had it with the decades of Clinton corruption. And this will be the year they say enough is enough!Enough is enough, folks.We're also going to fix our inner cities and help Latino Americans and African Americans. It's time.Forty-five percent of African-American children under the age of 6 live in total poverty. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth don't have jobs. More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1st, 3,000 people. The Democrats, like Hillary Clinton, have run the inner cities for 50, 60, 70, even a hundred years uninterrupted. They've produced only more joblessness, failing schools and horrible, horrible crime.To those African Americans suffering in our inner cities, I want to say the following: What do you have to lose? I will fix it, vote for me. I will fix it. What do you have to lose? Can't get any worse. Can't get any worse.I will be your greatest champion and I will deliver real change and justice in your community. I'm also going to fight to help millions of Latinos trapped in poverty and to fight to provide school choice, school choice... to every low-income African-American and Latino child in this nation.Here are some of the more amazing things that we're going to do from our country starting immediately, as soon as we win that election. Starting in January, we're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. She's raising taxes. Hillary is raising taxes substantially.We're going to eliminate unnecessary regulation, which is massive. We're going to lift restrictions on all sources of American energy and put the miners and steelworkers back to work.We're going to end Common Core and bring your educational process locally.We're going to repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare.We will save your Second Amendment which is totally under siege.We're going to support the men and women of law enforcement. They're going through hell.They are going through a tough time.We're going to rebuild our depleted military, the greatest people. They have old equipment. We're not taking care of our military. And we are going to take care of our very, very great veterans, for the first time.And we're going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.This Election Day you have one magnificent chance, I really believe it's your last chance. I really believe that. You know, you always hear, oh, this is the most important election, you hear it ever time. You heard it last time, you heard it -- I think you know this is it. When you get to the Supreme Court, one judge replacing Justice Scalia and the whole balance is over. And we have nothing but problems, we have a whole different country.So this is your last chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this country. On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington, D.C. will come face-to-face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.The failed and corrupt political establishment will be replaced with a new government of, by and for the people.I am going to fight for every citizen of every background from every stretch of this nation. And I am going to fight to bring us all together as Americans for the first time in a long time. We are a divided country. We are not going to be a divided country for long.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag. Right?Wouldn't that be nice? It's going to happen. You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You're going to remember this day. You're going to remember that this is a movement like they have never ever seen before in this country.Even the pundits, they can't stand us, and there's no smarter group, there's no better group, just incredible, we have to bring everybody in with us, everybody, because we're going to make our country so great again, so great. Everybody has to come.But we are so smart, so sharp, so loyal. And they do say Trump has by far the most loyal people, Trump has by far the most enthusiastic people.And remember what Hillary Clinton said. Basket of deplorables, right?No. The greatest people on earth. And you're irredeemable? I don't think so, right? I don't think so. I think the irredeemable might be worse. No, she doesn't get it.You're going to end up -- this will be four more years of Barack Obama, but worse. It will be four more years.If she got in, if she got in you're going to have four more years of Barack Obama and that would be a catastrophe.We're going to make history together. You're going back and you're going to look at this election someday in the future and you are going to say it is by far the most important vote that you have ever cast and it was your greatest single day.A vote for me is a vote for change and common sense and strong military and great veteran care and Second Amendment rights and good health care, so many things, borders. But it's also a vote directly for you because I am a reflection of you and that's what's happened.You're voting as people that believe in yourselves. You're voting to believe in your future. You are voting to believe in your great country. All together, we are going to make America wealthy again, we are going to make America strong again, we are going to make America safe again, and we are going to make America great again!Thank you very much. God bless you, everybody. God bless you.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.And we love Big Ben. Big Ben's a friend.But two years later, that tree was dead.He is a strong guy, and he's good guy too. Big Ben.So, I'm thrilled to be back in Pennsylvania. Great place. I went to school in Pennsylvania. November 8th, we're going to win this state and we're going to win back the White House.We're going to take on the special interests, the corrupt media -- and it is corrupt -- and the career politicians that have stolen your jobs, your wealth and stolen our middle class. They've stolen our middle class. We're going to make Pennsylvania rich again by bringing back our jobs. We'll bring back our jobs.How many have watched the debate last night?And we're going to talk about a lot of things today, but I always want you to remember this above all else. We're going to bring back the jobs to Pennsylvania. We're going to bring back steel. Your steel has been stolen from you in this area.Natural gas, the EPA is killing you and killing your companies and you're losing your jobs. Let me tell you, that's going to turned around on day one if I win. On day one. Your jobs are coming back to Pennsylvania, and they're coming back to this area. And that means we're going to take care of our steel workers and we're going to take care of our miners, believe me. I'm going to take care of you.We laid out a goal, uplifting vision for America. Lower taxes, better trade deals -- I'll give you a purse.And millions and millions of new jobs. But all Crooked Hillary can do was talk about small, petty things last night. During the course of 90 minutes, she was exposed and her values were exposed. She had no defense. All she could do was lie. She lied so much last night. They don't like to catch her on the lies.I explained how Hillary Clinton oversaw the disasters in Libya, including the drawing of the infamous red line. Remember she said, oh, I had nothing. Well, it turned out she was there, by the way. Remember, she said she wasn't there?The red line was actually drawn in August of 2012. No, she was there. She lied about it. She said she wasn't involved in that catastrophe. But that was just one of many.Of course, the moderators didn't call her out and they didn't call out this lie that she told. Hillary Clinton said she didn't delete her emails after a congressional subpoena. But she did. That was another lie. That was a hard one to believe. How did she say no to that one?The subpoena -- well, the subpoena was sent on March 4, 2015. Crooked Hillary's emails were bleached and destroyed. Now, nobody bleaches them. You know what? Bleaching is so expensive. It's really a very expensive process. But when you bleach them, it pretty much means they're gone. Although I've always heard you can't get rid of emails. I've been told you can't. I wonder if the NSA has her emails, do you think?Do you think? I don't think they looked too hard for her emails. What do you think, folks? Do you think -- I don't know.I'll tell you, I bet -- I don't know this for a fact, but I'll bet within the FBI -- you know, you have some of the greatest Americans in the world that are so proud of the FBI -- and I'll bet you they are sick to their stomachs at what's happening. Sick to their stomachs.Anyway, her emails were destroyed somewhere between March 25th and March 31st after the congressional subpoena was received. You know, if you are suing somebody privately and they delete and get rid of all your stuff that you subpoena, you got a very big consequence. You know what the consequence is, right?Here's -- here's the United States Congress -- United States Congress subpoenaing to see emails and other things and they're gone. And now, by the way, did you read yesterday? Two boxes of emails and materials are now missing.Very, very sad. Special prosecutor, here we come, right?If I win, we're going to appoint a special prosecutor because we cannot allow this to happen to our country. We can't. We're like a third world nation.Let's see. You have 30,000 -- 33,000 emails deleted, right? I would bet she had three for yoga and maybe five for the wedding, right? What about the rest?She had no defense when I brought up her failures in Iraq, Syria and Libya. She had no defense when I brought up her failures as a senator from New York promising to create the 200,000 jobs for upstate New York. But instead, the jobs were shipped to Mexico and other countries.She had no defense for calling on millions of Americans and then saying that they were deplorable -- that's you, deplorable. That's me, it's all of us. And you know what's worse? Irredeemable. I don't know, which is worse? Would you rather be deplorable? Irredeemable means you have no chance, right? We're deplorable and irredeemable. I don't think so.I think we have the greatest people on Earth. The smartest people.We have the smartest. We have the most loyal people. That's one thing every poll points out that, boy, Trump's people, it's like the most loyal ever.And one thing I know, we're going to get out and vote and we're going to be voting. And you remember the primaries. Donald Trump is behind, voting begins tomorrow, should be very interesting, but it looks like Mr. Trump will not be able to win this state, but he's put up a good fight. Next day, Donald Trump wins by 22 points. Everyone...Crazy deal. Mr. Brexit, Mr. Brexit. Remember I said Brexit's going to happen because I have a lot of property over there. Brexit's going to happen. They all laughed. They said Donald Trump said that Brexit's going to happen. Isn't he ridiculous? Anyway, three days later, they vote, Brexit happens. They never say anything. They never said anything.But that's all right. This is like Brexit, folks. You watch. We want our independence back. We want our borders strong. We don't want people coming in from Syria that we have no idea who the hell they are.As I said last night -- and I mean this -- she's got hatred in her heart. She wants to divide America. I want to bring us together as one people.And by the way, we have thousands and thousands of people outside. You know, that, right? Do you know how lucky you are? Do you know how lucky you are?And I guess they're not allowing them in. I don't know why because there's thousands of people. Where is the fire marshal? Let some more people come in, I see some seats over there. Let some people -- fire marshal, we need your help.Where's our fire marshal? Let them come in. We've got 3,000 or 4,000 people standing out there. See, I guess they figure you folks are taking the seats in the very back. We ought to let some more people come in.I always get a kick -- I mean, I know a lot about fire and fire marshals, but you have a room with four walls and a roof and nothing to burn. Let the people in.Hillary also had no defense for Obamacare, which is a total disaster. I'm going to repeal and replace your disastrous Obamacare. Much cheaper, much better.Hillary had no defense for her secret speeches to Wall Street and international banks that she hid from the public and which were exposed by WikiLeaks. And by the way, just as I'm walking on the stage, Mayor Giuliani said you're not going to believe this, look at this, we have all of these new charges. You see it just came down today. WikiLeaks, some new stuff, some brutal stuff. I mean, I'd read it to you, but to hell with it, just trust me. It's real bad stuff.The speech transcripts contain scandalous revelations about Hillary Clinton that disqualify her from seeking public office.And she is. She's disqualified just on the fact that she did that with her emails. Think of it: deleting 33,000 -- think of it. How can you do it? These transcripts also shine a spotlight on how this corrupt establishment works, where politicians meet in secret with the big banks, collect massive sums of money, then betray the American worker, which is you and me and sort of all of us. We're all workers. We're all working. We just work differently.You know, I tell this to people. We have people in this room right now that made more money 18 years ago than they're making now. They work a lot harder right now than they did 18 years ago. Their job was better 18 years ago and they're older. And the only thing I say is I'm older also, and I've never worked this hard either, folks, I will tell you. That's for sure.My campaign is powered by my money and also small donations from millions of visitors to our website who just want their country back. They want America back.Last night, I asked Hillary Clinton why she doesn't take some of the hundreds of millions of dollars that she made -- so I'll over $100 million into the campaign of my money. Is that smart or is that stupid?Take some of the money she made selling favors to special interest and invest them in her campaign, instead of having to rely on even more corporate donations.She looked like, oh my god, why did he bring this up? She had no answer. She was flabbergasted, I can tell you. In the secret speeches released by WikiLeaks, this is yesterday and the day before, Hillary -- not as good as today, by the way -- Hillary Clinton -- but I say that because the press will try not to pick them up because they try and protect her.I'll tell you what, the only thing she's got going in the media. Without the media, she would not have a chance.Hillary Clinton told her Wall Street donors that you need to have a public position and a private position. In other words, you need to be dishonest to run for office. In other words, have one for the public and one for the people that are giving you the money. Right? And that is very much right in that whole thing. I mean, it's crazy. How did Hillary Clinton try to defend this shocking admission? She did not deny she said this awful thing. Instead she blamed honest Abe Lincoln. Honest Abe! So Hillary Clinton for lying, blamed Abe Lincoln, commonly known as honest Abe. He's spinning in his grave.The speeches also show that Crooked Hillary supports cutting Medicare and Social Security benefits, one more example of how Hillary Clinton's public position is a lie. She wants to knock the hell out of your Social Security, she wants to knock the hell out of your Medicare/Medicaid. And I'm going to save them, OK? This is a little reversal for the Democrat/Republican, but I am going to save them because we're going to make -- we're going to make our country rich again.We're going to bring back our jobs. We're going to make good trade deals.We're going to have countries that we are defending all over the world pay a little bit more money, if that is OK.Which, in all fairness, until I came along, you never even heard about that. Right? And then when I say that they say, oh, Trump does not want to defend Japan. No, I'd love to defend, but let them pay a little more money, right, isn't that good?We're dying, we're going to have $20 trillion in debt, $20 trillion. So some of these countries that we do such a good job for, where we defend them -- and we love doing it, but they got to help us out a little bit. Right?Most shockingly, these speeches show Hillary Clinton saying, quote, "my dream is a hemispheric common market with open trade" -- you know what that does to your community? That's the end -- "and open borders!" In other words, she wants the United States to surrender to global governance with no controls over trade or immigration. Great. Can you imagine? Seriously. Can you imagine?She's saying she's for NAFTA, which she was. You know, her husband signed NAFTA. But she's also for Transpacific PartnershipBy the way, NAFTA is the worst trade deal ever made in the history -- not of this country, but of the world. What it's done to Pennsylvania and Ohio and upstate New York and New England. Poor New England, what it's done to New England.So she's for radical, unlimited immigration. In other words, people are going to pour in, but that's what she's for. I'm building a wall and she's for, like, come on across. Slight difference.A slight difference. We're going to build a wall. Who is going to pay for the wall?By the way, they may not know it yet, but I think they're getting the idea. But when you think of it, she wants to have people pour across. Now, the border patrol agents, 16,500, endorsed me recently. And last week...Never endorsed a presidential candidate before in long history. And last week, ICE endorsed. ICE is -- these are great people. These are people that want to do their jobs, but they're told to stand back, don't do your job. These are great people. You know, it'd be a lot easier for them if they didn't endorse me because they could just take it nice and easy. But they want -- so, we got ICE, we have the border patrol agents, we have Sheriff Joe from Arizona. We love Sheriff...And Hillary Clinton's got nothing. So she wants people to pour across the borders. She wants thousands and thousands of people to come in from Syria. I mean, 550 percent more than our President Obama.A Trump administration will completely renegotiate NAFTA or we will walk away and make a brand new deal that's far better where actually businesses start coming to Pennsylvania and to Ohio.Unbelievable. And we will stop the disastrous Transpacific Partnership, which would be almost as bad as NAFTA. Nothing could be as bad. But we'll stop it. And we'll make deals. But this is a complex deal with many countries. You have to see the arrows all over the place. Once you sign it, it's 5,000 pages, more than that long. Once you sign it, it's a mess.I like free trade. We make one deal, two deals, three -- we make it with individual countries, and if they don't behave, we terminate them. We send them what's called a notification of termination.But that will never happen because during that 30-day period, we'll renegotiate a better deal for our country, OK? And you the other way, you can't terminate. There's too many -- it's -- people go crazy. You have to be like a grand chessmaster, and we don't have any of them.Hillary Clinton's radical call for open borders, meaning anyone in the world can enter the United States without any limit at all, would end the United States as we know it today.No one who supports open borders should be able to run for president because we won't have a country.And by the way, weeks ago, I called out Hillary Clinton for supporting open borders and the media said I was wrong. Now, I've been proven right. Where is the media rushing to correct these false stories? Because in the WikiLeaks, it was all about open borders, free trade for everybody. See, I like free trade, but we want smart trade. It's got to be -- it shouldn't even be called free trade, it should be called smart trade. I don't like the term free trade.Because free trade, to have it really work, you need really, really smart people negotiating your details. And all these other countries have smart people. For them, it's important. For us, we have people, they don't know what they're doing.No less than Bernie Sanders declared that open borders would be the end of America. Bernie Sanders said open borders means there would be no United States, doing away with the concept of nation-state. Sanders also explained how open borders would make everybody in America poorer by radically reducing wages. Maybe that's OK with him. Not OK with me.By the way, how many ways can Hillary Clinton betray Bernie Sanders? She really has betrayed him. I mean, look, even if we don't agree with him, I mean -- you know, Bernie Sanders would have been a legend. He would have gone down as a legendary figure in history if he didn't make the deal with the devil. But he made the deal with her and now he's just another guy.She attacked his supporters as basement dwellers. She admitted in secret she's in favor of entitlement cuts and she's for open borders and open trade. Your state has lost one in three manufacturing jobs. Since Bill and Hillary Clinton's NAFTA and China deals happened.I'm going to stop foreign cheating, the product dumping, which by the way, is killing your steel industry, and in this case has already killed much of your steel industry. How many people agree with me that China -- because this is such a big steel area, or was -- we're gonna bring it back, don't worry about it.But how many people agree with me that China had so much to do and stupid politicians with the killing of the steel industry in the state of Pennsylvania?Between that and currency manipulation, which they do like grand masters and we do like we're playing bad games of checkers, we're going to start making things in America again. And we're going to start making things in Pennsylvania again. Don't let them tell you you're doing well because you're doing lousy.Pennsylvania steel will build our future and Pennsylvania energy -- our miners, we're bringing our miners back -- will power our future.Congressman, get up there, will you? Do we know our Congressman? Look at this guy. I tell you, they say he was a hell of a football player. They say he was -- I don't know if he'd be so good today. Would you be good today? I don't know. But he has been such an incredible supporter, and so great, and he's standing next to my daughter Tiffany who came today.Thank you, Congressman. Thank you.We have such great support in these areas. That includes, though, clean coal, shale oil and natural gas we have to protect. Pennsylvania workers will be hired to do the job. Hillary Clinton would rather give your jobs to people that pour into the country illegally. I explained how she favors a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into our land. We have nothing -- we know nothing about them.And by the way, we all have hearts. We know what's going on. It's horrible. When you look at Syria, when you look at the migration. We'll build safe zones and we'll get others to pay, like the Gulf states. They have nothing but money and they're not putting up their fair share. They have nothing but money. They'll pay. And we'll lead it, but they'll pay.I also exposed how Hillary Clinton is personally responsible for the release of thousands of dangerous criminal aliens into the United States. As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton refused to make foreign countries take back their own criminal aliens by canceling visas, a duty vested in her by the law. And I must tell you, she refused to use forceful diplomatic action.So we'll have a killer, and he'll be from another country, let's say someplace in South America, and we'll catch him because our ICE people are great and our border patrol people are amazing, so we'll catch him. And what happens is we'll want to bring him back to whatever country that person comes from.This could be a killer, a drug dealer, somebody else, a gang member, the head of a gang. Hillary Clinton would say, "We can't force him back into that country." The hell we can't.I guarantee you that under my administration, there will not be one bad guy that is not forced back into his country. Not one. There won't be any. You won't be reading about it. We will put such pressure on those countries to take these people back.But Hillary Clinton did say -- I'm sorry Madam Secretary, if you can believe this. This was prior to her naps. I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. But they won't take this killer back. "Oh, that's OK. Well, bring him back and let him out on our streets." And you know what happens, right?The Remembrance Project. You know what that is, right? The Remembrance -- these are the most incredible mothers and fathers and sisters and brothers who have lost their loved ones to killers, to killers, illegal immigrants that killed their loved ones. And it's a sad thing to see, that I can tell you.Her refusal to take such diplomatic action has caused the release of thousands of criminals into our community. One foreign national and convicted killer who should have been sent back to his home country in 2012 was instead set free by Clinton's watch. Six months after his release, he killed again, murdering a 25-year old beautiful Casey Chadwick. You probably heard about it.In just one single year of Hillary Clinton's tenure, 2010, nearly 4,000 convicted criminal aliens were released into American communities because their home countries just said, "No, we're not taking them back. We're not taking them back. Yes, we're supposed to legally. We're not doing it." So we took them.Another revelation from those secret speeches is that Hillary Clinton knew that the State Department and their devices were under threat of hacking, and yet she traveled overseas with her totally insecure telephone. Remember the ones that she banged the hell out of when she wanted to get get rid of...One more very important issue where I exposed the hypocrisy of Hillary Clinton, and the media, was on Hillary Clinton's treatment of women. I was getting beaten up for 72 hours on all the networks for inappropriate words 12 years ago. Locker room talk, whatever you want to call it. But I said to myself, wait a minute. And I just saw a very inappropriate words, but Bill Clinton sexually assaulted innocent women and Hillary Clinton attacked those women viciously.One of them said more viciously than he attacked them. If they want to release more tapes saying inappropriate things, we'll continue to talk about Bill and Hillary Clinton doing inappropriate things. There are so many of them, folks. You probably saw yesterday we brought four wonderful women to St. Louis.And honestly, it was both very beautiful and very sad. They really -- they've been trying to get their feelings out for so long and the media wouldn't take it. One thing with me, the media takes it. Whatever. So they were able to get what they wanted to get out.To quote Juanita Broaddrick, "Hillary Clinton threatened me after Bill Clinton raped me." She's been struggling to get the media to pay attention to her for many, many years. So last night, I decided we would expose the hypocrisy of the Clintons and the media and our politicians to the entire world.As I outlined last night, Bill Clinton was the worst abuser of women ever to sit in the Oval Office. He was a predator. Hillary Clinton systematically attacked and discredited the victims of Bill Clinton's sexual harassment and assault. These things aren't written by the media, but they're true. Written by many books.These victims include names like Kathleen Willey, Juanita Broaddrick, Paula Jones, Connie Hamzy, Eileen Wellstone, Sandra Allen James and Cristy Zercher. And there are many, many more. For decades, Hillary Clinton has been deeply familiar with her husband's predatory behavior, and instead of trying to stop it, she made it possible for him to take advantage of even more women. She put even more women in harm's way and then she goes out and says, "I love women. I'm going to help women. I'm gonna help women." She's a total hypocrite.The hypocrisy of the media and our politicians is hard to believe. They condemn my words, but they ignore and defend the -- and this is the way it is -- the reprehensible actions of Hillary and Bill Clinton that have destroyed and hurt so many lives.But perhaps the greatest window into the character of Hillary Clinton can be found in what she did as a lawyer when she was defending a man who raped a 12-year-old little girl.Desperate to win her case, Hillary Clinton blamed the 12-year-old victim. Her name was Kathleen Shelton. She was with us yesterday. She was right sitting front-row at the debate. As the lawyer for the rapist, Hillary Clinton said the little girl was emotionally unstable and had a quote, "tendency to seek out older men and engage in fantasizing."This is -- Hillary ruined that little girl's life, destroyed her life, then years later she was recorded laughing about it on videotape. She was laughing at the girl. There's nothing Hillary Clinton won't do or say to obtain power, and it's about time people started to understand that.But the hypocrites in the media don't want to talk about what Hillary Clinton has done to these victims. They don't want to talk about what their other political heroes have done to other innocent girls and women. People like Kennedy, Chappaquiddick. We remember that. Driving his car into a pond instead of calling the police, possibly saving her life. In fact, almost definitely being able to save her life. He went home and went to sleep. Did not report the incident to the police for 10 hours, yet he was hailed as a hero.The last 72 hours has framed what this election is all about. It's about the American people fighting back against corrupt politicians who don't care about anything except staying in power and keeping their donors happy.What I want to say to every American right now is that I accept the mantle of this responsibility for all of us, for all of us.We have an absolute incredible situation taking place, folks. And I will never stop fighting for you against the Washington establishment that has betrayed each and every one of you, betrayed the country. Our government has lost its virtue. Right now, it's just about protecting the powerful, and you know what I mean. And I know it better than anybody else. And I'm doing this because I just think it's so damn unfair.And it's ultimately going to lead to the destruction of our country. And we're doing it. The Clintons have corrupted our government at the very highest levels. Rank and file -- incredible people by the way, incredible people -- rank and file FBI agents are shocked at the corruption that they're witnessing at levels of the FBI that nobody would have thought it was possible.The Department of Justice, where Bill Clinton gets into the back of an airplane for 39 minutes just prior to a determination being made. Of course, you and I know the determination was made a long time ago. But gets on with the attorney general because he happened to be in Arizona playing golf. It was 110 degrees out, right? Nobody saw him on the golf course. Just happened to be there. Oh, there's the attorney general. Let me get back on the plane.So they spend 39 minutes in the back of the plane. They talked about two things; golf and grandchildren. Thirty-nine minutes. So I give the grandchildren five minutes, I give the golf three minutes, right? What else do you think might have been talked about? They can't believe, these FBI people, these people for life in the FBI -- these are people that are unbelievable people. They love this country so much. And they're seeing things that they've never seen before where guilty, guilty, guilty, guilty, no charge, no problem.They see all of this stuff going on and these people much be sick to their stomachs. What have we seen in the email scandal? What have we seen in third-world-level corruption? This is really what it is. It's third-world -- we're like in a third-world country right now. And this November is our one chance -- November 8th, our one chance -- to save our country. It's the last chance we're going to have, folks.I've traveled around this country talking about change. But my travels, the places I've been, the people I've met, they've also changed me. I'm not proud of everything that I've done in life. I mean, who among us is? Is anybody totally proud of every single element? Some we are. But let me tell you what I'm very proud of. I'm proud that I've always treated the blue collar worker -- and I consider myself in a certain way to be a blue collar worker -- that make this country run with tremendous respect.The waiters and waitresses, the cops and firefighters, the receptionist and the custodians, we treat them with dignity and respect. These are great people. These are great people.And our police and law enforcement officials, we have to be thankful for them because they have done an amazing job.I'm proud of the tens of thousands of jobs that I've created and I'm proud that I provide equal play and equal pay for equal work. And I have to do that, I have to do that. I've promoted women to the highest positions in my companies over the years and they have done an incredible job.I'm proud of our unbelievable movement, because that's what we have is a movement. Men and women who only want a better future for their children. That's what they want. That's what we want.I know that if my father and my mother were alive today, they would be very, very proud of me and they'd be proud of everybody in this room and all of the other stadiums and all of the other rooms that we're in. We have the greatest people in the world. The greatest people. And we are going to make America great again. And it's going to happen fast too, I can tell you.My parents knew what was in my heart. They would know the love that I have for all the hardworking people in this country and the love that I have for my country itself. I'm glad that I have the chance today to open my heart to all of you and tell you how much I want to make our country so much better, so much stronger, so much safer, so much wealthier. We have to do all of those things.A woman came up to me and said, "Mr. Trump, please, sir, leave out wealthy. It doesn't sound good." I said, "can I use rich instead?" "Rich. No, no, that doesn't sound good." I said, "here's the problem, countries all over the world are ripping off the United States. They're taking our wealth. They're taking our jobs. They're taking our future. We have no choice."We want to save our Social Security and our Medicare and our Medicaid. We want to save our wealth. We want to keep our taxes as low as possible. Right now, they're far too high. Our taxes are going to be cut massively by me, if I get in. And Hillary's going to raise taxes.Our regulations, which are killing our companies, are going to be cut massively by me. And I'll tell you what. You look at your energy companies, your natural gas, your coal companies, your steel companies, they can't do business. They can't compete with the rest of the world because the regulations are so horrible and so massive.So we're going to cut taxes. Hillary's going to raise taxes. We're going to cut taxes big league for the middle class, big league for business. We're going to grow again. Companies aren't going to be leaving our shores. They're not going to be leaving us for Mexico and other places. We're going to have companies coming back and new companies being formed. It's going to happen very quickly.My whole life I've been a fighter, and now I'm going to fight for you. We're going to fight.We're going to bring back our military. You know, our military needs enhancement. It's so depleted. We're going to fight for our veterans who are being horribly mistreated, not taken care of properly. In many cases, illegal immigrants are being taken care of much better than our veterans.We're going to fight for our Second Amendment, which is under siege.We're going to take care of that one easily. We're going to fight to have Supreme Court justices that believe in our Constitution appointed to the Supreme Court.You know, when I was in West Virginia, I met incredible people and a lot of miners. And I said to them, did you ever think of maybe moving to another area and going into another profession?They said, Mr. Trump -- just like she goes, hell no.But just like -- it's just like that. They say, Mr. Trump, we love being miners, we love mining. Our grandparents did it, our great parents -- grandparents did it, our fathers. We love mining. And I realized the love that they had for mining.And we're going to protect a great new resource, something that really over the last fairly short period of time, from an energy standpoint, has become so important, and something so important to this area: natural gas. So we are going to keep our people working and we're going to have a lot more people working.We are going to get rid of Obamacare. We are going to get rid of Common Core. We're going to bring our education local.We are going to make great and lasting trade deals, not the horrible trade deals. This year on trade, we will have almost an $800 billion trade deficit. Think of it. Who negotiates these deals? Who's negotiating? In other words, countrywide. With China, we're going to lose almost $500 billion.But think of this, countrywide we do all this work. We're going to have a trade deficit of $800 almost billion. It's not going to happen anymore, folks. It's not going to happen anymore.We're going to trade... we're going to trade, but I say we're going to now have a two-lane. You now, we have a one... we have a one-lane superhighway going into Mexico, right? You know that. Hello.We have a one-lane highway going into Mexico. We're going to make it maybe for a little while, to get some of it back, a one-lane highway coming back. But ultimately, it's going to be like this. We want to be fair.We're going to bring Pennsylvania steel and manufacturing back. We're going to unleash trillions in new energy, and we're going to put our miners back to work. We're going to protect our hunters and save our Second Amendment.Hillary Clinton wants to do big, big damage, big, big damage to the Second Amendment.We're going to fix your schools and your inner cities and reduce crime and poverty and joblessness. And we're going to liberate millions of African-Americans and Hispanic-Americans from poverty. What they're going through is unbelievable.We're going to make Pennsylvania and Ohio, and so many other places within our country, the manufacturing hub of the world once again. We're going to be able to do it. It's going to be not even hard to do.But to do these things, we must push aside the politicians and the special interests who have betrayed us. They've betrayed us. So this year, we have an election coming up on November 8th. So important that you get out and vote. So important that you watch other communities, because we don't want this election stolen from us. We don't want this election stolen from us.We do not want this election stolen. We have a movement like they've never seen before. Bill O'Reilly and others have said this is the single greatest phenomena they've ever seen. We have a movement like no other. We're going to make that movement incredible. And what we're going to end up with is this: a country that's not divided, a country that loves itself and loves its people.We're going to make a country where people are proud to come in, people are proud to come through the borders, people want to come through because they respect us and they respect our values. We are going to make a country that's wealthy again. We're going to make a country that's safe again. We're going to make a country that knows what it's doing and... and functions on common sense again, functions on common sense.Our future is in our hands. On November 8th, you're going to look back and you're going to say I believe, years from now, that was the most important day and the most important vote that you have ever cast because we're going to turn our country around. We're going to take back our country. We're going to take back the White House.We are going to work so hard and we are going to make America great again.Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody.Wow.Thank you very much, everybody. I don't know how old this building is, but I know one thing, we broke the building's record for attendance, OK?No way, right? Let's start. They'll fill in as we -- as we speak.So I want to thank you -- I want to thank all of the great people of Pennsylvania. I went to school in Pennsylvania.They've taken our jobs out of Pennsylvania. We're going to be bringing them back, folks, believe me.We're bringing them back. Oh, what these politicians have done to us, not going to happen much longer,I assume you saw the debate last night, everybody was good.Better believe me.So a special group, I don't know if you know who I am talking about, but they have been -- I don't know what it is. Bikers love Trump -- bikers, right? Bikers.I don't know what it is. I'm riding in these cars and they're passing me, going about 150 miles an hour say, man, those guys have guts, but they are crazy, right?But, you know, they had bikes for Trump, and it said, "the deplorable run for Trump." Who's in here from the deplorable run?Yes, there are a lot of them, over 1,000 -- so there are over 1,000 and the bikers is special, and I'll tell you it's great to have them on my side. You know, a lot of times I'll go to an event. I did in Hilton Head and I did in a few places -- actually many places -- and I'll see hundreds of bikers on these beautiful bikes, oftentimes Harleys, I have to say oftentimes, but not always, not always.But I'll see these bikers, and they'll be there, and I always feel so safe with the bikers. They are there, and a lot of times, they don't even want to come inside, they just want to make sure I'm safe. Can you believe that? They are great people.They are great people. So, to the bikers, I -- I love you guys. You're great guys, right? Great guys.Also, I want to introduce, if I could, two people that have been unbelievable. They're Congressmen -- hard to believe, I mean, Congressmen. Who likes Congressmen? But I like these two congressmen.And we have Congressman Barletta. Where is he? Where is he?Where is he? Come here.Congressman Marino, where is he?Come here, and get up here.Senator Sessions and Rudy, get up here please.We're going to make Pennsylvania so rich again, your jobs are coming back.We're going to be ending illegal immigration.We're going to stop the jobs from pouring out of our country.We're going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals. These are deals made by people that don't have a clue. We're going to lower your taxes, big league. Hillary wants to increase your taxes by a lot.We're going to reduce regulations, which are killing your companies and they're leaving and they're going to Mexico and lots of other places for lots of reasons, but one of the reasons is a bad reason. It's called "regulations." They are regulating these companies out of existence, and jobs out of existence.We are going to unleash American energy, including oil...... shale, clean coal and natural gas.Now, this just came out, this just came out. WikiLeaks, I love WikiLeaks.And I said, write a couple of them down. Let's see. During a speech, look at Hillary Clinton, oh, she's crooked, folks. She's crooked as a three-dollar bill.OK. Here's one. It just came out, "Lock her up is right." No.So everybody saw the debate last night, so let me tell you. When I said we are going to get a special prosecutor to figure this deal out...I have never been so ashamed of this country as what's gone on with Hillary Clinton. I have never seen anything like it. I have never ever seen anything like it. You have never seen anything like it.Thirty-three thousand emails -- thirty-three thousand, she deletes them, she bleaches them -- that nobody does because it's such an expensive process. She gets a subpoena from the United States Congress, and after she gets the subpoena, she does that, but we'll talk about that in a minute. We have to go back to WikiLeaks, so WikiLeaks.So, a speech made behind closed doors, Crooked Hillary Clinton said that terrorism was not a threat, quote, "not a threat to the nation." No. Let me tell you.Well, big, big, big threat. Terrorism was not a threat. Let me tell you, terrorism is a big threat. We're riding into something that's very dangerous and she's allowing thousands and thousands of people to come into this country, and I will tell you something, it's the great Trojan Horse, and we don't want to be part of the era -- well, we have the great -- well, they're talking about us in 200 years from now, OK, as the stupid people that got taken.Then over here, let's see, and bragged about her great relationship with the financial industry. That's where she gets all the money. In Florida, they say she's going to put ads on 50 to one, and I think we're going to win. I think we're going to win.Hillary admitted -- oh, this is a beauty -- during one of the secret speeches, amazing how nothing is secret today when you talk about the Internet, no.Hillary admitted that ISIS could infiltrate with the refugees, great. Then why is she letting so many people into our country.She said Wall Street can police itself. All right, that's -- who cares. Big bank, Clinton said, needed Wall Street money in order to successfully -- she needs -- says here, quote, "needs Wall Street money in order to successfully run a campaign," OK. So what else is new?You know, I said to her yesterday, I said, listen, I'm going to have over $100 million in my campaign, right? So meaning, I don't have to take money from all these characters that want everything because that's what's happening. So, she's out there and she got a lot of money. She made $200 million -- $250 million while she's in office, OK? Figure that one out, figure that one out.So I said, so look, I'm putting up $100 million -- it's going to end up being more than that -- but I'm putting up all this money and I'm also getting tremendous amounts of money from people like $61 a piece, a record set. No Republican has ever done that, no Republican.Which tells me that we have a great movement going on, right? That's what a great movement is. But I said to Hillary Clinton, why did you put up $10 million or $20 million, $25 million, put up some of the money that you ripped off when you're a Secretary of State, when you're in the Senate. Figure it. From the time they left the White House until now, $250 million. I said, put some of the money into your campaign. Don't get it from these companies that all want favors. So let's see what happens with that, so let's see.Speech behind closed doors, Hillary said, "In order to be successful politically, " this is a bad one, "you need to have both a public and private position on public policy."She wants -- in one of the other speeches, universal health care coverage, single parent system. She wanted to be like Canada, but the people in Canada with money, when they have an operation, they come down to this country because they have got a lot of problems up in Canada, so she wants to go. Forget it.Here's an interesting one. Sidney Blumenthal...Do you remember what Ambassador Stevens in Benghazi was calling, and writing, and even -- they were desperate for help. They say like 600 times, right? The only one she was speaking to is Sidney Blumenthal who's a sleaze -- he's a sleaze. In fact, Obama wanted her restricted that she couldn't speak. That's probably one of the reasons she wanted to have her private server, you know, she wanted to go -- because she promised Obama that she wouldn't be talking to sleazy Sidney.So, Blumenthal writes a quote -- this just came out a little while ago, I have to tell you this. One important point has been universally acknowledged by the nine previous reports about Benghazi. This is Sidney Blumenthal, the only one she was talking to. She wasn't talking to Ambassador Stevens, even the 600 calls, probably desperation.The attack was almost certainly preventable, Benghazi. Clinton was in-charge of the State Department and it failed to protect the United States personnel and an American consulate in Libya, he meant Benghazi.If the GOP wants to raise that as a talking point against her, it is legitimate. In other words, she is now admitting that they could have done something about Benghazi. This just came out a little while ago.What a group we have, what a group.What a group we have. So, we're going to do a lot. We're working very hard, we have 28 days, November 8th is the big day. We're going to get out, we're going to win. I'm going to make three, four, five stops a day. I may be limping across that finish line, but we're going to get across that finish line.And I figure -- I figure that that final week maybe we do six stops a day and we'll call them "Get Out The Vote Stops." If you don't mind, we'll make them a lot shorter than what we're doing. Just get out, because we got to get you out to vote.And honestly, folks, you know, I went to school in Philadelphia, and I love Philadelphia.I love Philadelphia, and I hope we're going to do great in Philadelphia. I went to school there, I love the school, I loved everything. But, I just hear such reports about Philadelphia, and we have to make sure we're protected, we have to make sure the people of Philadelphia protected, that the vote counts are 100 percent, everybody wants that. But, I hear these horror shows -- I hear these horror shows, and we have to make sure that this election is not stolen from us and is not taken away from us.And everybody knows what I'm talking about, and this crooked media -- you can talk about Crooked Hillary -- they're worse than she is.I'm telling you, they are so dishonest. Without the media -- without the media, Hillary Clinton couldn't be elected dog catcher, I mean that, it's true, true.Rudy knows I only tell the truth, I only tell the truth.You know, they do focus groups after the debate. We won every poll. We won. Did you see those polls? Every poll, 80-20, 90-10 -- I get a list, but we don't want to put -- but every poll. But CNN did a focus group.And by the way, Frank Luntz did a focus group, and the focus group -- that one we liked -- Frank Luntz, good guy, 18 to four in favor of Trump, right?CNN did a focus group. Unfortunately -- it's so sad. They got caught trying to convince people and find the right people so they could give a phony vote. CNN is a disgrace -- disgrace.They just turned off their camera.So funny, they just turned off their camera. I love it.I love it now these dishonest people. They're dishonest. But, you know, when you look at them and, in fact, if somebody get me -- get me -- get me a list. Where is the great Dan Scavino? Get me a list. I'll tell you about the list. Bring it up here right away, bring it up here, I'll tell you.But we had a good time last night, and they just sent out -- they had 69 million people watching, which is just about, they say, the most ever to watch the second debate, which is fantastic.Which is fantastic. And even the bad media admitted, you know, when I say, the line in the sand, and she said, I wasn't Secretary of State. Unfortunately, she was, she lied, again she lied. Hillary lied, but it wasn't as big a lie as the emails, don't you agree? No, no, no, she lied, she's a liar.And she lied -- and she lied when she said that she didn't say that TPP -- Transpacific Partnership -- was the gold standard, right? She lied because she endorsed it, she wanted it 100 percent, then she heard me speaking about it and say they don't control monetary manipulation in all the ways that this country has taken advantage of, and she went against it temporarily. But, if she ever won, she'll approve that so fast, and nothing is as bad as NAFTA, but you know what, that's going to be close, it's going to be a disaster -- it's going to be a disaster, and so, she lied. She said, I never said it was the gold standard, unfortunately, it was the gold standard, so one of those things, one of those things.So, folks, it's so important that we get out in November, that we vote, so we get rid of these liars, we get rid of these incompetent people, we get rid of the Hillary Clinton's of the world.And you know, I'm with the Congressman and we're backstage, and a poll came out like we're down three points in the states of Pennsylvania, and they're going -- and these guys are pros. You may not like them because they are politicians, but I like them anyway despite they're being a politician. But, you know, they said, we can't believe it because everybody in Pennsylvania wants Trump, you know, and...... and we get crowds like this everywhere, but we get them in Ohio, we get them in Florida, we're doing -- we have one in Florida coming up 25,000 minimum -- minimum, two days, but we're getting them. But, they just said -- they said, there's no way we're three down. Even the polls are crooked, I'm telling you. Look, we're in a rig system, folks, we're in a rig system. The only way we can unrig them is get to the polls, but we got to make sure they're honest polls, we got to make sure. But, I think November 8th is going to be Brexit, but I...... you know, when I -- when I have a lot of property over there, so they ask me about Brexit, and I said, well, I think it's going to pass, meaning they wanted independence. The U.K. wanted to get out, they didn't want people pouring in to their country who nobody knew where they came from, right? So I said, no, I think it's going to pass.Huge headlines "Trump says it's going to pass." Remember Obama went over there, he said he's going to put them on the back of the line and it's never going to pass, and if it does, they're going to put them in the back of the line. I think he helped it pass, you want to know the truth? So, they said it's going to pass, and I said it's going to pass, but it was given very, very little chance of passage, very, very little chance. And then what happened is it passed easily, right? So the polls were all really wrong, but big league wrong. We're just a little tiny bit behind here, and the polls were just like unbelievable. So, it passed and nobody said, Trump said it was going to happen. I hate that, you know, I hate that.But what is going to happen, I think the state of Pennsylvania, we're going to win so big. I'm just thinking -- I think we're going to win in Pennsylvania.And we're going to spend a lot of time in the suburbs over the next couple of weeks, the suburbs of Philadelphia because we got to get that vote, we want to get that vote. I know you're gonna vote, right? Right?So we're going to get that vote and we'll get it fast. Where are those polls? Bring them up here.Dan Scavino, everybody, the famous Dan Scavino.Let me see. Did anybody ever hear of Dan? He's become quite famous in social media. All right, you ready? So it says here, in -- ah, Drudge is a great guy, right? Right.What a great man. Trump 70, Clinton 30, this is the list.Variety, you know, that's the show business people, but they're not going to like this. These people don't like Trump, you know, the showbiz. Trump 64. See, this guy doesn't stop, look at this guy. Trump 64, Clinton 36.Listen to this. Time Magazine -- now do you think Time Magazine likes me even though I've been on their cover like seven or eight times? They're liking us. Time Magazine, no fan of Trump, 89 to 11.Fox -- Fox, 85 to 13, where are the other couple of points?Here's a good one -- well. they're are the slightly conservative -- Breitbart, 93 to seven, would you say that?Fox Seattle, 79 to 16.Detroit, 84 to 16. Get the hell out of here, Dan.So, we're going to have -- is there any more fun to be than a Trump rally in all fairness, right?So here's what I'm going to tell you. You know, I spend a lot of time with Senator Sessions who's the king of the borders. He is the king, one of the great men, one of the most highly respected men in the United States Senate, and they go to him -- and I remember Ted Cruz, who endorsed me recently, which was very nice -- but, I remember Ted Cruz has such respect for Senator Sessions. And one of the reasons is nobody knows more about the border than Senator Sessions, and we were talking a little while ago and we have people coming in and we just got ICE two days ago -- ICE. These are great people, by the way, they're not allowed to do their job, but they're great people. They just endorsed me because they want to do their job.The Border Patrol, the Border Patrol just endorsed me -- the Border Patrol just endorsed me. And I will tell you such an honor, 16,500 Border Patrol agents, they endorsed Trump, first time they've ever done it. And then very importantly, Sheriff Joe from Arizona, we love Joe.And I told New Hampshire, which has a tremendous problem with heroin and other places, but, New Hampshire was the first state I went and then we went in to run like people haven't seen very easily. But I told New Hampshire very, very strongly, I told New Hampshire, if I win, we're going to solve the problem of this poison flowing into Pennsylvania...... to New York, to New England, to all of these different places, to Ohio -- where they have a big problem -- to Florida, we're going to stop the poison -- and to do that, we're going to build a wall.Who is going to pay for the wall?Who?They don't know it yet, but they're paying for the wall, right? They don't know.No, they're great. I was with a few of our friends, we went to Mexico two months ago, we had a great meeting with the president and he's a good guy, and we're working that everybody is going to be happy. But, right now, it's a very unfair highway going in. It's a highway going in and there's no highway going out, our jobs, our money, our wealth is going there.A friend of mine who builds plants, he's the biggest. He builds plants, that's what he does. If you said build an apartment, maybe he wouldn't do so well, but he builds the best plants in the world -- biggest and the best.And I said, how are you doing? And you might have heard me say this, I think it's incredible and, frankly, it's terrible in a certain way. He said, Donald, I'm doing great, the business is great. I said, good. How is it in the United States? Not very good. Where is it good? He said, Mexico. He said it's the seventh wonder of the world. He said, it's the most incredible thing you've ever seen. We are building some of the biggest, most sophisticated plants in the world.Now, the people are coming out of Michigan, Ford announced -- as you know -- Ford just announced that they're moving their entire building of small cars to Mexico.Out of Mexico. That's on top of a $2.5 billion plant that they built three years ago, that I've been complaining about for three years, and that's why I think we're going to win in the state of Michigan, because I've been complaining about this for years, and these other guys like Hillary, she started complaining in about two -- two days ago. She's not going to do anything.So, we're going to create strong borders, and we're not going to let our businesses go. And when Ford says, we're leaving, or when Carrier Air-conditioning says they're leaving the great state of Indiana where we have a wonderful, wonderful vice presidential nominee.Mike Pence, great friend. A great guy and, by the way, a totally loyal person. This guy, he called me up, do you mind if I put out a statement? No, what -- what would you like to put out -- just, absolutely put it out Mike. This guy is so loyal, so good and such a terrific person, and his family, Karen, his wife, and family is amazing. He was one of our really good choices. Do you agree with that? One of our really good choices.And he's done a great job in Indiana, AAA rating, lower the taxes, done really a good job unlike this guy, Tim Kaine.You know, in his first week as governor of Virginia, he signed a $4 billion tax increase, this is what you have, and Hillary Clinton wants to raise your taxes -- but he signed a $4 billion tax increase -- so here's what's going to happen, folks. When these companies like Carrier Air-conditioning think they're going to leave Indiana or leave Pennsylvania, or leave Ohio or leave any of your states, they can go between states, I can't get involved, OK, if you don't mind. You gotta -- that's up to you and your governor and all of the people.But, if they think they're going to go out and they're going to make air-conditioners, move to Mexico, build their new plant and sell those air-conditioners, now through a very strong powerful border and they're going to sell those air-conditioners and they've let 1,400 people go in Indianapolis, not going to happen that way -- not going to happen. There will be consequences, they will pay a 35 percent tax on every air-conditioner that comes across the border.And when they know that, they won't leave Indiana and these companies won't leave Pennsylvania, and they're not there because their numbers don't work anymore, OK? We're going to stop them so easily. And I've been watching these politicians go through this for years. I've been watching them give low interest loans, I've been watching them give zero interest loans -- these companies don't even need the money, most of them, they take the money. There were a couple of instances where geniuses with great lawyers gave them money and then they moved anyway because they didn't have any restrictive confidence in the -- I mean, the whole thing is crazy.But, what's going to happen is once they find out, they're not going to leave. OK? They're not going to leave so, we're going to have strong borders. We're going to have a wall, the wall is going to stop people from coming into our country illegally...... along with Border Patrol and ICE. The wall is going to stop poison drugs, poison from ruining our youth and poisoning our youth and other people.And, you know, I have something I always like doing, I read this when I'm in a good mood -- I'm in such a great mood. You know, I wish those cameras would show this crowd because if they would, people would be amazed, they never show the crowd.They never show the crowd, show the crowd, see they don't want to turn around.Look at the cameras they face straight. They face -- my wife is always going, how was the crowd? She said, it sounded big, but I never see it. They never show the crowd because you know what, they don't want us to win and they don't show these crowds, but you look at these crowds, Bernie Sanders never even came close, and he was second, by the way. Hey fellas, turn the cameras around, seriously way up there in the upper decks, show the crowds.But they just don't want to do it. They keep that camera pinned to my face, they don't even want to show what's behind me, they keep that camera pinned to my face.They are so dishonest.You know, if Crooked Hillary Clinton were up here and they had this kind of a crowd, the cameras would be showing the crowd all day long.That's why we have to win this election, we have to take it away from these dishonest characters. So here's the story, folks, it's true, every night I go home, my wife said, how big was the crowd? She said, it sounded huge. I said, yes, they have like what, 16,000 people. So she said, yes, it sounded that. I said, didn't you see it? No, they never showed the crowd. It's always my face -- my face, I don't want to -- I don't want to show my face, I want the crowd, but they never moved the camera.You know, I used to think they couldn't. I figured their brand new equipment they couldn't because mechanically they didn't moved. And then when they're -- but unfortunately, when we had a protester the first time, right, you know what I'm going to say, those cameras they turned like a pretzel, the steel wow, wow.So, they look like pretzels. I never -- I never knew that steel could be bent in that kind of a configure.They're dishonest. But because of the fact that we have lots of problems, but one of the problems we have a tremendous illegal immigration problem. And now Hillary Clinton wants people to come in from Syria at a rate -- think of this...They're coming to your community, folks, at a rate of 550 percent more than Obama and he's letting them in by the thousands, and we have no idea who the hell they are.So, I have this -- has anyone heard "The Snake " because people love it, but...OK. Who has -- who has not heard it? Who has heard it?Shall we do it or not?It's so good. So, you think of this in terms of illegal immigration, in terms of people coming into our country that we have no idea who they are, and in terms of the fact that lots of bad things will happen.And again, before I start, I have a big heart, you have a big heart, we all have big hearts. We want to see good things happen, right? So we're going to build safe zones in Syria, we're going to have the Gulf States pay for it because we owe right now $20 trillion, it's double during Obama's term. And the bad part, it doubled though we didn't do anything, we didn't fix our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our hospitals, our airports are a mess, they're like third world. So, we have totally too much debt and we didn't fix anything. We got problems, folks, but we'll get it fixed if we get elected, otherwise, we're going down.So, this is a case for illegal immigration and it was written by Al Wilson, anybody ever heard of Al Wilson? And it wasn't meant for this, it was a song, but, I saw it once and I thought it was very apropos. So, this is thinking about illegal immigration, and what's going to happen as sure as you are -- sorry, we have no seats -- standing there."On a way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender-hearted woman saw a poor half-frozen snake. His pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Poor thing, she said, I'll take you in and I'll take care of you. Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the broken snake. She wrapped them up all cozy in the comfort of silk, and laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. She hurried home from work that night. And as soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she taken in, had been revived. Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the broken snake.She clutched him to her bosom. You're so beautiful, she cried, but if I hadn't brought you in by now, you surely might have died. She stroked his pretty skin again and kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying, thank you, the snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in, oh, tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake. Take me in, oh, tender woman, sighed the vicious snake -- vicious, vicious, vicious.I saved you, cried the woman, and you've bit me heaven's why? You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die. Oh, shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin, you knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in."And then we have very incompetent politicians in Washington taking everybody in, that honestly it's a very sad thing to behold and to watch, very, very, very sad.Is there a doctor in the house? Are you OK? Thank you very much. Thank you. Are you OK?You know, we have people waiting here for seven, eight hours. I love you, darling. I love you. Look at her.She's tougher than all of us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.Look at that guy over there.Wow. Wow.Bring him up.What's your -- what's your name?Now he's supposed to look like Donald Trump, but he's actually much too good-looking, you are really handsome.Are you having a good time tonight?Where is your daddy and your mommy, right? Do you want to go back -- do you want to go back to them or do you want to stay with Donald Trump?Beautiful, what a beautiful boy, what a beautiful boy. Thank you.I'll tell you what folks, we better win on November 8th. You know, one of these -- one of these pundits said to me -- because this is a movement, there's never been anything like this -- they say -- many of them said -- Bill O'Reilly said -- a lot of respect for Bill O'Reilly, tough guy, smart guy.He said, it's the single greatest political phenomena he's seen in his lifetime, that covers a lot of territory. And others have said the same thing, and they said, really it doesn't matter if you win or if you lose, it doesn't matter because what -- I said, let me tell you a little secret. If we don't win, this is the greatest waste of time, energy and money that I will ever do in my life, believe me -- believe me.We're not doing this to come in second, folks. And if we come in second, your Second Amendment is in trouble because she wants to decimate it.And we're going to fix -- by the way, you know, we're going to do something that people haven't done. We're going to fix our inner cities, we're going to help our Latino-Americans and our African-Americans, we're going to help them.Forty-five percent of African-American youth lives in poverty, fifty-eight percent of African-American youth don't have jobs. More than 3,000 people have been shot in the city of Chicago since the beginning of the year -- think of that -- since January 1st, 3,000, that means it's like a war zone.The Democrats, like Crooked Hillary Clinton...... have run the inner cities for 50, 60, 70, even 100 years uninterrupted. They produce only more joblessness, failing schools and rising crime.Those African-Americans suffering in our country -- and I have to tell you this -- they're suffering -- they're suffering. You got no jobs -- inner cities, you got no jobs, you have no safety, you have no education. The schools are horrible. I say to them, what the hell do you have to lose? I'm going to fix the inner cities, I'm going to fix them.I'm going to fix them. Vote for Trump. We've spent $6 billion -- think of this, think of this -- we spent billions and billions of dollars on different things. We don't get our monies worth, but we've spent in the Middle East $5 to $6 trillion, what do we have? It's worse now, had we done nothing in the Middle East it's much better than it is now. You wouldn't have the migration.Look at the mistakes that Hillary Clinton made. Libya, Iraq, they created ISIS because the way they got out of Iraq, whether you like going into the war or not, and despite what you read from these dishonest people, I was against going into Iraq, by the way.But whether you were in or not, it was somewhat with the surge stabilized and they announced to the world that they're going to take everybody out real fast, get them out, get them out, get them out, and the vacuum was created. And guess who came out of the vacuum, who came out of the vacuum? ISIS. That was Hillary Clinton and our great genius President Barack Obama.And now what he does -- all he wants to do is campaign. Remember he said, Donald Trump will never win the Republican primary. All right, so we've won that one, right? Isn't it too bad -- isn't it too bad that we don't have stronger leadership on both sides -- on both sides. I mean, you know, you have people that can't fix a budget, but then they start talking about their nominee, but they can't fix the budget. Isn't it really sad that we don't have stronger leadership on both sides? But that'll change if we win on November 8th, believe me it's going to change fast -- going to change fast.But why is it that the President of the United States, we've got no growth. You saw GNP, you saw that GDP, you saw that, right? It's so bad like one percent. That means we're not growing. Do you know if China goes down to seven or eight percent, it's like considered a national tragedy? Here we are hovering at nothing, our jobs are gone, we have bad jobs. They have a phony employment rate. Bad jobs numbers last week, did you see those bad jobs numbers? And that's the last jobs report before the election, I was shocked. I was so surprised that they let that happen because it's all rigged -- it's all rigged.But, let me just tell you, we're going to do something that's going to be so amazing. I'm going to fight harder than anybody has ever fought for the American people -- harder.We're going to help the Latinos trapped in poverty. We're going to fight for school choice. We're going to fight to end common core, which we'll do very quickly and bring education locally.And Hillary Clinton can't do those things because she's totally run by the Teachers Union, which are wonderful people, by the way, but they have total control so you can't choice and you can't end common core. If you're Hillary Clinton, you can't do it because you're controlled by the teachers just like she's controlled by Wall Street.So what we're going to do are things that haven't been done, and these things are going to be wonderful. We have a military that's depleted, we have to build up our military, we have to -- we have no choice.We have to take care of our great veterans, we're not taking care of our veterans, not taking care of.We're going to save your Second Amendment, we're going to terminate Obamacare and replace it.We're going to have the largest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, remember this, hers are going up. We are going to do things that are going to make you so proud of this country again, you're going to be so proud. You're going to go to the polls and you're going to even home tonight and you're going to say to your husband, to your wife, to your children, to whoever listens, I had a great time, but you're going to look back in 10 years, in 15 and 20 years, and 25 years, and you're going to say, this was one of the most important nights -- more importantly, you're going to say, on November 8th, the single-most important vote you've ever cast, is going to be cast on November 8th.She wants to put our miners out of business.Not going to happen, going to be just the -- we're going to have clean coal. We're going to have all forms of energy, we're going to have all forms of energy. We're going to have everything, but we're going to take care of our minors, we're going to take care of our steelworkers. We're going to not let the EPA destroy our companies for natural gas, and shale and all other things, not going to let it happen.We're not going to let it happen. So, you're going to go home and you're going to say, great evening, great evening, but you're going to look back at that vote and you're going to say, that was a very, very important day, that that was the greatest vote I've ever cast, because that's when our country started turning around -- that's when our country started turning around.And you're going to be proud of your country again and, hopefully, you're going to be very proud of your president and you're going to see things happen that have never happened before. We're going to make great trade deals. We're going to have a strong military and, hopefully, we're not going to have to use it but it's called "peace through strength."And we're going to have our borders back again, and people are going to come into our country, but they're going to come in legally. They aren't going to come in -- we're going to have a big beautiful door.But, they're going to come in legally through a process, and it's not going to be a process now, where people are waiting in line for 10 years and they don't move and you had people come right across the border, so unfair. We're going to have a fair process and we want people to come in. Is that correct? We want people, but they have to come in legally.And we're going to see immediate change, and that's what you need. Hillary Clinton is not about change, Hillary Clinton has been doing this stuff for 30 years.And I said to her last night -- I said to her last night, I said, you know, Hillary, you talk about this thing and that thing, and Donald's got some great tax deal, but all her friends have the same thing. All her friends, they said, Hillary, you are United States senator, why didn't you something about it? She's not going to do anything about anything, it's just talk. And you saw it and I said, when she was a senator, she said she was going to do things. She never did a thing, it only got worse. That's what's going to happen with our country, folks.So here's the story, you go out, early vote, do whatever you have to do, but you go out on November 8th and you vote, because so many things we are going to put -- remember this, people don't talk about it.Justice Scalia passed away. Great man, great justice. We are going to appoint great people who believe in our Constitution to the United States Supreme Court...... people that believes in our Second Amendment to the United States Supreme Court.This election day, you have one magnificent chance to deliver justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this country. You have 29 days -- can you believe it? This started on June 16th of last year, coming down the escalator, to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country to come true. On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington, D.C., will come face-to-face with the righteous verdict of the American voter, it's about time.We are going to smash the Washington establishment and open it up to each and every American the way it's supposed to be.Wouldn't it be nice if some of our politicians fought the special interest instead of fighting me and you?The sad truth is a lot of establishment politicians simply don't believe in protecting our borders, or fixing our trade deals, or putting America First, and we are going to put America First.I am going to fight for every citizen, of every background from every stretch of this nation, and I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. We are a divided country now. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag.You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life, you're going to remember this day. This is a movement like you've never seen before and you will never see it again, if it doesn't happen on November 8th, it's never going to happen for our country. Believe me, it will never happen again. We are going to make history together. You're going to look back at this election and say, this is by far, and I say it again and again, the most important vote -- by far -- that you've ever cast. We're going to vote to make our country safe again.We're going to vote to make our country wealthy again.We are going to vote on November 8th to make our country great again. Thank you very much. God bless you. I love you. Thank you, thank you.Thank you very much.We want room, right?Well, it's great to be in Florida. My second home, I live here, I stay here, I love this place. And I want to tell you, so I guess we have, like, 11,200 here and outside we have over 10,000 people. Would anybody like to switch places?You are great! There is no place like being at a Trump rally. No place. No place.Thank you very much. In 28 days we're going to win Florida and we are going to win back the White House. We're going to win them back.I'd like to begin tonight by extending our thoughts and prayers to those recovering from the tragic aftermath of Hurricane Matthew. And I watched and fortunately it took a little bit of a turn to the right, to the east, and we got a little lucky, but it was still very bad. So to everybody, our thoughts and prayers are with you. Thank you.If you've already registered, request an absentee ballot today and vote really early. We've got to win. The Hillary Clinton documents released today by WikiLeaks make more clear than ever just how much is at stake in this election, so much corruption. This election will determine whether we remain a free country in the truest sense of the word or we become a corrupt banana republic controlled by large donors and foreign governments. The election of Hillary Clinton would lead to the destruction of our country, believe me. It will lead to the destruction of our country. Today we learned amazingly that the Department of Justice fed information to the Clinton campaign about the email investigation so that the campaign could be prepared to cover up her crimes. What is going on?Rudy Giuliani said it. This is collusion and corruption of the highest order and is one more reason why I ask my attorney general, I will ask, to appoint a special prosecutor.We have to investigate Hillary Clinton and we have to investigate the investigation. This was a disgrace. This was a disgrace. Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after congressional subpoenas. Can you imagine that? They got a subpoena from the United States Congress and then they deleted everything. If you did that in private life, you go to jail. And then destroyed her phones, some with a hammer, boom. Anybody destroy your phones before with a hammer, anybody? No? Anybody? No? And people have gone to jail for doing far less.She also lost, think of this, she was Secretary of State, lost as much as $6 billion in taxpayer money while she was running Secretary of State. Now, some people say it was misplaced. Oh, billions of dollars misplaced. These WikiLeaks emails confirm what those of us here today have known all along. Hillary Clinton is the vessel, a corrupt global establishment that's raiding our country and surrendering the sovereignty of our nation.This criminal government cartel doesn't recognize borders, but believes in global governance, unlimited immigration and rule by corporations. It also believes in no borders, just come on, folks, come on in. Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, again just revealed, Hillary Clinton said my dream is a hemispheric common market with open trade and open borders. Well, there go the rest of your businesses and there goes your country, folks.She doesn't say that. Behind closed doors when she thought no one was listening, she pledged to dissolve the borders of the United States of America, no borders. You don't have borders, we don't have a country.WikiLeaks has given us a window into the secret corridors of government power where we see a former Secretary of State announcing her desire to end forever the American independence that our Founders gave to us and wanted us to have. American soldiers has fought and died to win and keep America's freedom, and now Hillary Clinton wants to surrender that freedom to these open borders, open trade and a world government.Crooked Hillary is so radical on immigration that as Secretary of State she refused to make foreign countries take back their criminal aliens. We have them all over the place. She didn't want to bring them back. Bring them back -- the countries were smart, they say we don't want them. We say, OK, we'll take them. And then you look at the crime and you wonder why.And by the way, do you know, it was just announced, that murder is the highest it's been in our country in 45 years. You've heard that, right? One such killer who was set free on Hillary's watch went to a jail, came out and went on to kill a beautiful young American girl named Casey Chadwick. People have heard that name, beautiful, wonderful person. The killer, who had already been convicted for shooting a girl in the head, should have been sent home. Instead, he was set free and stabbed Casey in the face and neck 15 times violently and stuffed her body in a closet.The corrupt establishment in Washington wants to surrender America's borders, even as they send our troops overseas to protect the borders of foreign countries. We are protecting the borders of foreign countries, but not our borders.A Trump administration will secure control, defend and protect the borders of the United States. We are going to protect.And the Border Patrol agents just gave us, as you know, their endorsement, never did it before. ICE just gave us their endorsement. Sheriff Joe from Arizona just gave us his endorsement.Even Chelsea Clinton, the WikiLeaks emails show, expressed serious concerns about conflicts of interest at the Clinton Foundation and the State Department. During a recent trip to Florida, I had a chance to spend some time with the incredible residents of Little Haiti. The Haitian community has contributed so much to this country and to this state. I also learned from them firsthand how much they despise the Clintons for what they did to the people of Haiti.New emails revealed today by ABC News show that during the deadly earthquake in Haiti, which killed over 150,000 people at least, the Clintons couldn't stop cashing in. As people were dying in Haiti, Clinton insiders were separating out requests from friends of Bill or William Jefferson Clinton VIPs so that their business interests or contracts would receive very special treatment. People who were labeled not friends of Bill were placed very much on the sidelines.Never been anything -- folks, there's never been anything like this. There's never been what's gone on here with the email destruction, with the deletion of thousands and thousands.And last week it was revealed that two boxes of emails and information were missing. They were missing, they're gone. The company that benefited from Mills's actions then invent a company that put a lot of money in a company owned by Cheryl Mills. They invested.Today, Haiti's death toll from Hurricane Matthew is on the rise. We should never forget how Bill and Hillary Clinton handled Haiti the last time out.To all of our friends in Haiti and to all of our friends in Little Haiti who are so amazing, your day of justice is coming. And it arrives on November 8th. We've got to do this. Gotta do it. We've got to do it.Not only have the Clintons ripped off Haiti, but the new emails show members of the Clinton team attacking Catholics. While this is offensive, it's just the latest evidence of the hatred that the Clinton campaign has really for everyday Americans. And you see it and you see so much from these WikiLeaks. You see so much, there's so much.We've all read the reports and heard the stories about how disrespectfully she treats law enforcement, you've seen it, how disrespectful she is to the Secret Service and many others in uniform even there to protect her.And by the way, these are weapon-carrying people. They carry weapons. Hillary Clinton wants to really dismantle our Second Amendment, you know? So maybe she should start with her security people not carrying weapons. Does that make sense to you? Maybe. Maybe she should.She even smeared all of America's police officers as essentially racist. You heard that recently, essentially racist.And by the way, I want to give a shout out and salute to our great people of law enforcement, our police have done an amazing job.I'm proud of the fact that I've always treated the working people of this country with dignity and respect, especially our military and law enforcement personnel. These are amazing people.The WikiLeaks emails show that Hillary's staff even has given up secret notes on when she needs to smile. It's all a phony deal with her.By the way, did everybody see the debate, right?Gotten good reviews, good reviews. We've gotten good reviews. We'll see what happens. But Pat Buchanan said the greatest of any presidential debate, the greatest performance. Thank you very much, folks. Thank you.And we had eight online polls and every one of those, that's Time magazine and Drudge and so many others, and every one of them said we won by a massive margin. So let's hope it all boils down to winning on November 8th. Otherwise, honestly, I've wasted my time, you've wasted your time.I will have spent over $100 million on running for office. That's a lot of money, a lot of money. That's not the thing. If I don't win, it will be the single-greatest waste of time, energy and money. And, you know, somebody told me recently, a pundit said it doesn't matter whether you win or lose. What we've done, all of us, what we've done, but what I've done, has never been duplicated, there's never been anything like this in American history.You look at our crowds. I mean, Bernie Sanders was second, his crowds are tiny. Did you see Hillary Clinton today? She had this little crowd and they say, oh, it was the biggest crowd. She had nothing! She had nothing!And they're talking on television because the media's rigged. Let me tell you...... the best thing she's got going, in my opinion the only thing she's got going, is the rigged media. She's got nothing going.Can you imagine working with her for four more years? The last thing we need, the last thing we need is another four years of Barack Obama. We don't need that, believe me.That's what we're going to get if we get her.But the emails also show yet again that the DNC, Democratic National Committee, rigged the Democratic election, the primary process, to take it away from Bernie and give it to Hillary Clinton. The DNC vice chair was caught feeding information about Bernie Sanders's plans to the Clinton campaign. You're not supposed to do that. It's supposed to be -- you know, if I was Bernie I wouldn't be too happy after watching what came out today on WikiLeaks. Bernie was used.And in all fairness, Bernie made a deal with the devil and he made a big mistake. He could have gone down as something very important in American history. When he made that deal, he sold out, he sold out, and very, very bad. But to all the Bernie voters out there, don't vote for a Wall Street sellout like Hillary Clinton.And remember this, the one thing I had in mind and the one thing we had in common with Crooked Hillary was borders. The borders are much stronger, that's why I have all the endorsements from everybody on the borders. But Bernie knew that we were getting ripped off on trade and he was right, except my numbers are much different. We're going to redo it. We're going to have unbelievable trade deals. We're going to make unbelievable deals.But to the Bernie Sanders people, you got sold out. But remember this, I'm much stronger on trade, so much stronger on trade than Bernie. And trade was a big deal because he was right, we are getting sold out. Our jobs are being lost, our jobs are being taken, we're being sold out. A vote for Hillary is a vote for more reckless foreign invasions, more Wall Street cheating, more terrible trade deals.And as confirmed just today by WikiLeaks, Hillary also wants to cute Medicare and Social Security. She wants to do that.A vote for Trump is a vote for America First and it's a vote to protect Medicare and Social Security. Believe me, we're going to protect our Medicare. We're going to protect our Social Security. She's not going to do it.She's also going to raise your taxes big league, folks, and we're going to lower your taxes. Minor, minor thing, but just remember it.WikiLeaks also shows something I've been warning everybody -- everybody -- about for a long time. The media is simply an extension of Hillary Clinton's campaign. It's just one more way that the system is rigged, a big way, really a big way.Reporters who work for these outlets, like The Washington Post or The New York Times, may think of themselves as journalists, but they're actually just cogs in a corporate political machine. The dishonesty of The New York Times is unbelievable. The dishonest of The Washington Post is unbelievable. The dishonesty of all of those cameras, so many of them, not all of them, is unbelievable.The emails show The New York Times, the Boston Globe, Univision, a third-rate reporter named John Harwood, what a third-rate reporter that one is, remember he did the debate and made a total fool of himself, he's with CNBC, all doing favors for the Clintons. And reporters smothering the Clintons with praise. Why? Why?You saw Hillary on the debate stage. Do you think that's really worthy? Do you really think that's worthy, folks? Do you think that's what this country is all about?The New York Times even gave Clinton veto power over her quotes in a major story. I've never heard about that. I'd like to have veto power when they misquote me all the time. It's actually corruption.The emails also show that Hillary was given the CNN town hall questions before her big debate against Bernie Sanders. Is that possible? Donna Brazile, the DNC vice chair, emailed, "From time to time I get questions in advance," she said. Oh, that's fair. Do you think that's fair to Bernie?I'm starting to feel, really, aren't we starting to feel sorry for Bernie Sanders, like, a little bit, right?The media can't report on the establishment because the media largely is the establishment. And the corrupt media is teamed up against you, the American people.And I used to get great press until I said I'm running. And then they said he's running, we don't want him to run. But I used to get great -- who got better press than me? I got great press, a lot of press. My wife said the other day you used to get such great press, now every single story is a slant. And I'll tell you what, it's libelous, it's slanderous, it's horrible and it's really unfair. But we're going to beat the system, we're going to beat the system.We're going to break up the failed establishment, end the chronic corruption and create a new and bright American future. I didn't need to do this. Folks, I didn't need to do this, but we have to do it. And we have the greatest people on earth. The people of our country, these are the greatest people on earth. I've gotten to know so many. Our veterans are so incredible, they're not being taken care of. Our military, our police, we have the greatest people on earth.Hillary Clinton, the candidate of the past, today dredged up Al Gore. Did you see him? Anybody see him?Didn't he say he was the founder of the internet? He wasn't. To campaign with her in Florida. Al Gore wants to eliminate the combustion engine, essentially, and flies around the world on jets and pushes plans that would help create China, make it stronger. They make so much of our product, they make so much. They make so many of our big windmills. And, you know, when they're making them, that steel, and all of that stuff that they talk about going up into the air, but if it's got to go up into the air, maybe we should be making them instead of China, Germany and other places.The Obama-Clinton EPA spent billions on failed climate projects instead of repairing water infrastructure in cities like Flint. Remember Flint? What a shame.My administration will address important environmental priorities, like the Everglades, and ensure quality water all across America, including the fixing of water problems like Lake Okeechobee. It's amazing, you know, Lake Okeechobee. They're always letting the water out. Do you ever notice we always have droughts? They're always letting the water out. I said keep it in, we won't have so many droughts, we won't have any droughts. But Lake Okeechobee -- and, you know, a lot of things have happened.Hillary has received millions of dollars from donors who want to shut down American energy altogether. Radical activists, like Tom Steyer, have promised to spend more than $70 million this election to get Clinton and Democrats like her elected. In return, Clinton wants to shut down energy production all across the United States. Wait until you see your energy bills.We're going to put the miners and the steelworkers of our country back to work. We'll do it.Hillary Clinton and Al Gore support the Paris deal which will cost America over $5 trillion and cause Florida electricity rates to skyrocket over the years, skyrocket. Think of it, we're going to spend $5 trillion. And you know what's going to happen? We're going to become noncompetitive with other countries. Other countries are eating our lunch right now. They're eating our lunch. We're going to become noncompetitive.The Paris deal also allows China, the world's largest polluter by far, to increase emissions for more than a dozen years while the United States makes drastic cuts immediately, right now. What's that all about? Why aren't we doing it together? What's that about? Who negotiates our deals? It's one more way the Clintons have surrendered American prosperity to China and so many other countries. We are led by people that are grossly incompetent. They're grossly incompetent.How about the $400 million in cash that they gave Iran that turned out to be $1.7 billion?You know what $1.7 billion is? It's like this stage loaded up with money. Nobody's ever seen it. Can you imagine these people in Iran when they see the money? They say, can you believe this? Boy, did we hit the jackpot. Three years ago, before we made them rich, as a country they were ready to go, but we made them rich, we made them rich. How about the 800 people ready for deportation? Remember, two weeks ago, ready for deportation, they made a mistake, they all became United States citizens, right? And these were people that were not exactly too good, that's why they were being deported. But the 800 turned out to be wrong. Somebody actually said Trump was wrong on the number. I said, oh, man, here we got. Was it 400, was it 799? Not, I guess it was, what, 1,700, 1,800 it turned out. It was much more than the 800. They said I was wrong because I was low. The whole thing is crazy.So I said, you know what? That's OK, just reverse the -- you know, you can deport them. They said that wouldn't be constitutional. Hey, folks, folks, we're being led by stupid people. We're being led by stupid people.And Hillary Clinton will be worse than Obama. If I'm elected president, we are going to start winning again. We don't win anymore. The WikiLeaks speeches even showed Clinton praising the president of China for promising to assert his authority. My energy proposals will unlock the $50 trillion in energy reserves right here in America. This means new jobs in Florida, not new jobs in China. We're going to make America First, folks. America First.It's all part of our plan to make America rich again. But to make America rich again, we also have to repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.Bill Clinton, in a rare moment of truth-telling, said Obamacare was a crazy system where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. Now, on this he was right, right? On this he was right. We've got to give him credit. Oh, boy, did he suffer that night. Can you imagine? That was last week. He suffered gravely when he went home. The next day he came in, he said -- he made another -- sort of, I'm only kidding, I'm only kidding.Premiums are going to surge next year here in Florida beyond what you've ever seen before and all across the country. I just left Texas, great state, they've gone up 60 percent through Blue Cross Blue Shield, 60 percent. And remember this, the election on November 8th, they're trying to announce many of these massive increases after the election. Don't let it happen. You're going to have 100 percent increases, you're going to have 95 percent increases. But you've already got 68 percent, 72 percent. Insurers are fleeing, patients are losing their doctors. Remember, you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan? Twenty-eight times, Obama said that. He lied!And the best students don't want to be doctors anymore. They used to want to be doctors. Doctors have more accountants working for them now than they have nurses, it's so complicated. It's a giant mess, a giant catastrophe that will destroy American health care for good if we don't get rid of it. And this election is going to be so pivotal in terms of your health care, in terms of costs for health care. So remember, you're going to get great health care at a far, far reduced cost. It's going to be much less expensive. This Obamacare is a nightmare. It is a nightmare.And by the way, Hillary Clinton wants to go to single payer. The government's going to take care of your everything. It's going to cost so much money.But you have to get out if we're going to do it and you have to vote. We're going to replace Obamacare with health savings accounts so you can choose the private doctor that you want.At the center of our economic revival, we'll be fixing our terrible, terrible trade deals. If you remember, on June 16th of last year, that is when I said we're going to run. You know, it takes a lot of guts and courage to do this. I started off, there were 17 people, great people, all nice people, some didn't, you know, honor their pledge, but these are minor details, right? But we had some great people, many of whom are supporting us, Dr. Ben Carson we have, a great guy, great guy, good man.Chris Christie, I mean, we have incredible support. Mike Huckabee, he's been so great on television, he's so good.He's so good. He said the other night Donald Trump won that debate by a landslide, but that doesn't mean the press is going to report that. They all reported Trump won. But Mike Huckabee said it better. He said Trump won it easy, not even a contest. But that doesn't mean that the CNNs of the world will say that. OK? They won't ever say it. They will never say it.If the late great Abraham Lincoln debated and he was representing our point of view, CNN would say Abe Lincoln went down to a massive defeat. I mean, these are dishonest people we're dealing with. These are very, very dishonest people. And it's really a shame. And their ratings are not very good either, that's good. You know why? Because some people they lose credibility.The New York Times is losing credibility. Remember, they wrote the story about Trump with women? It was on the front page of The New York Times, that I was a little bit lewd -- lewd? But they had the story a few months ago with women and they put it on the front page of The New York Times and then the women called in and said I didn't say that. I like him a lot, he's a great guy. You know, from 30 years ago and 20 years ago and 15 years ago. And I was so honored that they had the courage to do it. But The Times never gave me, you know, any kind of a retraction. It's a disgrace. What's going on with the media is disgraceful and it's happening to all of us, believe me, it's happening to all of us.Forty-seven million Americans are living in poverty and 45 million Americans are on food stamps. This is the legacy of Obama/Clinton. My economic reforms on energy, taxes, regulations and trade will create at least 25 million new jobs over the next 10 years. It's going to be unbelievable. I will be the greatest jobs president that God ever created, believe me.The state of Florida has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and China deals happened.Thank you, I love you, too, darling.I love Florida! I love the people of Florida!I've created many, many jobs in Florida, many, many jobs. You know, jobs in Miami Beach, Doral is a tremendous success and Mar-a- Lago and the clubs and we've done all of that. Hillary has done nothing for Florida.And remember, when we were in the primary, I ran against Marco, Jeb, all these guys, and we had a great -- hey, look Marco's been very, very nice lately and I hope he wins, I do. But we won by 21 points. Remember that? Everyone said, what happened?How about all of these states? You know, I went into a couple of states, Trump was one point down, doesn't look like -- and then we win by, like, 14 points. We could have this happen. We're pretty even in Florida and I'm a little disappointed because Hillary hasn't created a job and I've created thousands of jobs in Florida, thousands.I mean, at Doral I have over a thousand people working just at Doral itself. Mar-a-Lago, Trump International, many, many jobs, buildings along the beach in Miami. You know, we've created a lot of jobs. So, Florida, if you guys don't vote me as a victor I'm going to be very angry at you. Hillary doesn't come down to Florida. She comes down to Florida to try and get your vote, then you won't see her anymore.If Hillary Clinton gets in, the manufacturing that's left in Florida, Ohio, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Michigan will be shipped to other countries, shipped overseas and go to Mexico. Look, there's no doubt about that.If I win, day one we're going to announce our plans to totally renegotiate NAFTA which is a one-way street for businesses to leave our country.They get the businesses, they get the cash. And you know what we get? We get the drugs, that's what we get. We get nothing. We get unemployment and we get drugs.The years of all-talk, no-action politicians like her will end. I'm not controlled by special interests, so I'll immediately begin to go to work on this. That's why I'm putting up my own money, for the most part, other than we're getting massive amounts of small contributions, average $61. You saw the numbers. In fact, they're going to be announced tomorrow, set records for a Republican on the small contributions. I love that. I love that. And we're doing good.And we just came out with a new commercial on Crooked Hillary. She's crooked as a $3 bill. I used to say a $2 bill, but now they make $2 bills.If we don't get the deal we want on NAFTA -- remember this, remember I said it -- we will leave NAFTA and start over again and make a much better deal. OK? We will terminate.A Trump administration will also stand up to China's product dumping and currency cheating and the steel. What they're doing to our steel companies is unbelievable with the dumping. We're going to start making things again in America. We're going to have Apple make their iPhones and make things in this country, not make everything in China and Vietnam and these other countries.We're going to bring Apple and many other companies, they're going to be back in the United States.Our jobs, we're going with much lower business taxes. We're bringing the tax rate from 35 percent to 15 percent and we are going to be booming again. Our taxes are so high, our taxes are so high that businesses are forced to leave.And by the way, when businesses want to be ripped out of Florida, ripped out of your community, not going to happen anymore because there's going to be consequences. Like Carrier air conditioning in the state of Indiana, where Mike Pence, by the way, is doing a great job for me. Do we like Mike?So here's my question to you? By cheering, who did better in the debate? Are you ready? You're going to cheer, you're going to let me know. So I did very well. Did you see Hillary today? Did everybody see the debate? Yeah, you lost, got killed. No, I look forward. Next week we have another one. I look forward.Hey, did you see -- wait, wait, wait. Did you see where she said that I entered her space. So here I am, I'm standing, right? You saw that. This is a liar. So I'm standing at my podium, I've got my chair, and Crooked Hillary walks across the stage right in front of me. I'm standing. I didn't move, right? Right? So I'm standing and she walks across the stage, she's standing right in front of me. I didn't care. I didn't care. And she's answering a question and then she walks right back. OK, that's fine. I didn't make a big deal. Next day I read the paper, he entered my space. She entered my space, right? But did you see what she said, that I entered her space? I didn't move. And I was very careful because years ago somebody did come in and talk to her and the poor guy, Lazio, he got just killed. So I said I'm not getting near this woman. No, I'm not getting near this woman at all, no interest, no interest, I have no interest.But you saw that, right? So I'm standing there, she walks, she stands right next to me. And the next day they said Donald Trump entered her space. These are dishonest people. Anyway, but next week we have another debate in Las Vegas, so that'll be fun.America, if I get elected, will become -- when, when? They always go, when, when? But I like to, you know -- gotta leave here, you don't want to sound too egotistical. The polls are pretty even in Florida. You don't let me down!Don't let me down. Honestly, don't let yourselves down maybe more importantly.America will become the great jobs magnet of the world, remember that.We're also going to fix our inner cities and help our Latino Americans. And believe me, that's what we have to do. The Hispanics in this country have been treated very unfairly. The African Americans have been treated very, very unfairly. Forty-five percent of African-American youth live in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of American-American youth don't have jobs. Only 41 percent own their own home. That's much, much lower than other groups, 41 percent. That's a very low number, one of the lowest.More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1st, 3,000 people. So the inner cities don't have jobs, have a lousy education, right, have lousy, horrible, and they're unsafe. You get shot walking to the store.So I say to the African Americans suffering in our inner cities, what do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump, what do you have to lose?I will fix it. I will do the job. And in four years from now when we have another election, I will win with African Americans and I will win with Hispanics in very large numbers. We're going to fix it. These politicians have been lying to you for years, these Democrats. They've run the inner cities for up to a hundred years, even more, uninterrupted, and they come for your vote every four years.Hillary Clinton comes for your vote and you'll get a vote and then after you get the vote she'll say bye-bye, I'll see you in four years. She doesn't do anything. She didn't do anything for New York state. Remember upstate New York? A disaster. She came out and she said in upstate New York she's going to create 200,000 jobs. Guess what? Everybody left, it was, like, a disaster. She was a disaster. And she's a bad person, remember that. She's a bad, bad person.I will fight harder for you than anyone ever has fought before. And that's why I want to get the African-American vote and I want to get the Hispanic vote. We're going to fix your communities, we're going to fix those inner cities for once and for all. We're going to fix them and we're going to create jobs and great education. And we're going to have safe inner cities instead of these horrible, horrible death traps. And that's what they are.We're going to fight for the Latinos trapped in poverty, that includes school choice for every low-income African-American and Latino, Hispanic child in this nation. Disadvantaged children will be able to send their kids to the public, private, charter or magnet school of their choice.I also have a message for our wonderful Cuban-American community. Any Cubans here? Cuban, Cuban American? Not too many, but I'll say it anyway, all right? Obama made a one-sided deal with the Castro regime by executive order. Everything's executive order because he doesn't have enough time because he's playing so much golf. He doesn't have enough time to convince Congress to do it. This guy plays more golf than people on the PGA tour.We will cancel the Obama order unless we get the deal that we want, including political and religious freedom for the people of Cuba. We will also stand with our friends in Venezuela as they struggle for freedom. And Doral is located in a big community where we have tremendous numbers of people from Venezuela, amazing people. The people of Venezuela and Cuba know how dangerous corruption is and how dangerous socialism is, two more reasons why we have to keep Crooked Hillary Clinton out of the White House.Here are some more amazing things as we finish up that we're going to do for our country starting in 2017, right around the corner. We are going to massively cut taxes and regulations. She is going to increase taxes substantially.We're going to protect internet freedom. You see where they want to sell now, they want to have the internet run by the world? Right? Did you see what Obama wants to do? Oh, I hope we can stop that deal fast. Did you see that? Wants to give up that tremendous right.We're going to defend religious liberty.We're going to safeguard our very obsolete electrical grid from cyber attack. Cyber attack is a new, big problem.We're going to rebuild our depleted military. And we are going to take care of our great veterans. We have tremendous veteran support, tremendous veteran support.We're going to construct a state-of-the-art system of missile defense. We're going to expand America's true role as a leader in space.We are going to save our Second Amendment which is under siege by Hillary Clinton.And the National Rifle Association, the NRA, as you know, endorsed me, the earliest endorsement they've ever given to a presidential candidate.And we are going to, and this is so important, appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.You have 28 days to make every dream that you ever dreamed for your country to come true, on November 8th, it's so important. The arrogance of Washington, D.C. will come face-to-face with the righteous verdict of the American voter, you.We are going to replace our corrupt global establishment that has failed us on the borders, on trade, on foreign policy, on the economy and so much more. We don't win anymore, folks. We don't win anymore. When did you see us win? We lose on trade. We can't beat ISIS.Oh, by the way, we're going to knock the hell out of ISIS. We're going to knock the hell out of them.We're going to replace the failed leadership in Washington, who have betrayed you, squandered your wealth and sold out your country.And by the way, we're going to have very strong borders and we will build the wall and we will stop drugs from pouring in.No, we will build the wall. OK, folks, are you ready? Who's going to pay for the wall?Hundred percent. They might not know it yet, but they will.Look, Mexico's great and the people are great I got to meet three weeks ago. You probably saw, I went to Mexico, I met with the president and it was great. And we're going to build a way and they're going to pay. The reason they're going to pay, they're making a fortune. They're making a fortune on trade. Our trade deficit with Mexico is massive. Our trade deficit with China is beyond anything you could even imagine.Worldwide on trade, we lost almost $800 billion last year. You say to yourself, who negotiates these deals? We have a few of my friends here, they're good business people, they're sitting here and they're saying, who negotiates these deals? They're in the audience. One guy is looking at me, he's laughing now, he's saying, who? Incompetent people or corrupt people, OK? They're either incompetent or corrupt.I'm asking all Americans, Republicans, independents and Democrats, to join us in our campaign to give our government back to the American people.I am going to fight for every citizen of every background, from every stretch of this nation. And I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. We're a divided country, folks. We're divided in so many ways. We're going to be a unified country again. We're going to love each other, everybody, not just the people here. We're going to love each other.And by the way, is there ever a better or safer place to be than a Trump rally?You better make sure we win or there will be no more Trump rallies, to hell with that, to hell with the rallies.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag.You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You're going to remember this day. This is a movement like nobody has ever seen before. It really is, it's an amazing thing. We take it for granted almost. It's an amazing thing when we go out to Pennsylvania, we had 20,000 people. We go to Alabaman, we had 35,000 people. We go to different places and we get crowds that nobody has ever seen before for what we're doing. And I don't have a guitar. Somebody said you get the biggest crowds in the world for a guy with a guitar, which is an interesting -- it's an interesting way of looking at it.I'll tell you who said that, a very famous guy, but I better not, I'll get him in trouble. Happens to be very liberal, I will really get him in trouble.We're going to make history together. You're going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote that you've ever cast at any time in your life, November 8th. A vote for me is a vote for change. A vote for me is really a vote for you. We're going to run things right.America First. Remember, America First. We are going to put our country first for the first time in a long time.Once again, we're going to have a government of, by and for the people.We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again!Thank you. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you very much.ENDI'll tell you the same thing, however, the only people that will be shown on television won't be the 15,000 people, it'll be this group right over here.So, the good news is, you have better seats, or standing room only, but you have better, but they're going to be more famous, right? They're going to be more famous.Look, we want to have the cameras circle around and show this crowd, will you do that cameras?Go ahead cameras.They never do it. They never do it, so we won't waste our time, it's just the dishonest media. Look.We love being here, I love being with you. I love this state, as you know, I'm here all the time.In 27 days, we're going to win Florida ---- and we're going to win back the White House.And that's what's happening folks, that's what's happening.We're going to bring back our jobs, we're going to end illegal immigration, we're going to renegotiate our totally disastrous -- I mean these deals, aye yai yai -- the trade deals the worst. We're going to renegotiate those trade deals, reduce surging crime. You saw what happened the other day, murders in the United States, the highest level in 45 years. You don't hear that from the press.We're going to cut taxes big league. Crooked Hillary is going to raise taxes. We're going to cut taxes and regulations. We're going to reduce the costs of education. By the way, we're going end the Common Core, and we're bringing our education local.We're going to left the restrictions on American Energy and deliver real change for our great American people; it's time.And when it comes to international government, to massive trade deals, and to America's borders, we're going to defend the freedom and sovereignty of the United States of America like never before.And we are going to once again put America First.The deadline for voter register -- who is not registered? Is there anybody in here not registered? If you're not registered, get the hell out of here, OK?Threes a nice looking young guy -- hey listen, leave right now and go and register.They just extended it for a little while, so right after -- you, raise your right hand. Do you promise you're going to register after this? If you like what I say, OK, if you like what I say.Seriously, I'm curious, who is not registered in this room? OK, all young people. Believe me, the young people like me better than Bernie, I'm telling you.Because with me, when you graduate from college, you're going to come out and you're going to have a vast array of jobs. OK, right?So go out and register, and we're going to have an awfully big -- I'll tell you what, honestly, we're going to have a big four years, eight years, we're going to have a big, great future for our country.Also, you can request an absentee ballot and you can vote by mail, if necessary. So, register, request a ballot.Thank you. I love you. I love you, too.The Hillary Clinton documents -- have you been seeing this, what's going on? -- released by WikiLeaks make more clear than ever just how much is at stake in November and how unattractive and dishonest our country has become.The election of Hillary Clinton would lead, in my opinion, to the almost total destruction of our country as we know it. She would be the most dishonest and the most corrupt person ever elected to high office. And I don't think it would be close.The WikiLeaks emails show the Department of Justice fed information -- did you see this? -- to the Clinton campaign.So think of this. The Department of Justice, you remember that whole deal with Wild Bill getting on the back of an airplane, just happened to be in Arizona.He was gonna play golf. It was 110 degrees.But he gets on the back of the airplane to meet with the Attorney General to talk about his golf game and to talk about his grandkids. He was there for 39 minutes.I think most of us know what happened.So fed information -- Department of Justice fed information -- think of this -- to the Clinton campaign about the email investigation so that the campaign could be prepared to cover up her crimes. Now, did you ever hear --Did you ever hear anything like this?Here you have Department of Justice coming to see them to brief them prior to their interview. Folks, this is out of control.And the FBI -- unbelievable people. You have incredible people in the FBI. I would be willing to be that they are so ashamed of what's happened at the upper level.I would be willing to bet that they don't even sleep at night.These are great people. These are great Americans. And they can't believe what's going on.This corruption and collision is just one more reason why I will ask my Attorney General to appoint a special prosecutor.Our country has never been so low. In addition to a special prosecutor to look into what happened and all of the corruption, and all of the -- we'll say so called crime.But look, when somebody deletes 33,000 emails after getting a subpoena. But we have to also -- remember this -- remember this. This is maybe in a sense even more important.We have to investigate the investigation.We have to investigate the investigation.We've never had a case like this. And even Congress, you know, is sort of -- they've never had this before, because there's no event like this that ever took place.Normally, Congress -- you know she lied to Congress. She lied to the FBI. And remember, he said she was negligent. She was all the things you needed to be, but she lied to Congress, she lied to the FBI, she lied to everybody -- she even lied in the debates about the gold standard, right.Remember, she said, I never said gold standard. And remember when I said line in the sand? She said, I wasn't Secretary of State. I said, I think you were, but let's see -- even the press said she was Secretary of State, so she lied about that.But think of this. Think of this. There's never been a time like this in our country. And Congress, in all fairness -- and I'm so disappointed in them. I am so disappointed in Congress. I am so disappointed.And I mean both sides. I'm not talking Republican Dem -- I'm talking everybody. To allow a thing like this to go -- this is crime at the highest level. She shouldn't be allowed to run for president. You know that.Other people's lives have been ruined, destroyed, for doing a tiny fraction of what she did. You saw the man with the book, he had to give back all the royalties and went through hell. You saw the man with the picture of the submarine, his mother goes around, she's devastated, devastated. Took pictures of a submarine. And you take a look at this.So we have to investigate the investigation, and Congress -- but I speak to Congressmen. They don't know what to do. Because normally, they vote and they hand it over to the FBI and the Justice Department. But the FBI and the Justice Department won't do anything, so they don't know what to do.But all of these things -- yes, she did this, yes, she did this, yes, she did that, yes, she did that, but we're not going to do anything, right -- but what do you do when you hand them over to the FBI and the Justice Department and that's the end of it? We have never been in a position like this.I'm so embarrassed by what's taken place, and I'm very, very disappointed in Congress because our people, our politicians -- I don't know, do they make a deal where everybody protects each other in Washington? Maybe that's it. I really believe it. I really believe it. I almost say, listen, we're going to leave you alone, but when it's our turn, you have to leave them alone. Do they make deals like this?This is the most heinous, the most serious thing that I've ever seen involving justice in the United States in the history of the United States. We have a person that has committed crimes that is now running for the presidency, and she has the Justice Department, where she essentially told the AG in the speech or a talk that she'd appoint her AG again. And this is the person that's supposed to be ruling?Folks, whether I win, lose, or draw, I'm ashamed of what's happened to our country and so are you.Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 emails. And did you see, two days ago, boxes of emails and other things were missing? They were missing.So she deleted 33,000 emails and bleached them. By the way, nobody bleaches; nobody -- I have people that are sophisticated in this world. They never even heard of it. They called it acid wash, meaning you can never retrieve them, although I have a feeling that the NSA has them. They don't want them. They don't want to get them. I have a feeling.So then she did this after, not before. Before would be bad. She did this after getting a congressional subpoena.Now, if your friend is suing you in a regular lawsuit, and you do that, you go to jail. Here's the United States Congress subpoenas her emails and other things, and she deletes the emails, saying there are 33,000 emails -- remember? -- for the wedding and for yoga classes -- 33,000 emails.And then -- and then after all of that, now they're missing two boxes of perhaps the most important of the group.Obviously, they've done a great job. But that law firm should be implicated in this crime. OK?They're the ones -- they got rid of all this stuff. The law firm got rid of all this stuff. And they should be implicated because they have committed a crime. They are not supposed to say, "Oh, we got rid of most of it." That law firm that I know very well, as I said -- total professionals, total insiders -- they got rid of 33,000 and much more than that. It is one of the great miscarriages of justice.So then she destroyed her phones, some with a hammer, to cover up her crimes. Now, how many of you people have gotten rid of cell phones and you start whacking them with a hammer? Has any -- please raise your hand? Please. One. What business are you in?I see two hands. We have 15,000. Two hands. Anybody else? It is so disgraceful. It's so embarrassing. And by the way, we're going to go over some of the WikiLeaks stuff. The press hardly reports it. They hardly report it. She did a big number of Catholics, horrible number on Catholics. She did a horrible number on evangelicals through her people.Americans have had it with the years and decades of Clinton corruption. It's corruption -- Whitewater, cattle.Never is with these people. Remember years ago -- most of you are too young to remember. Remember the cattle? She bought some cattle and she had the greatest return, like almost in the history of cattle deals? And some of these professional cattlemen and cattle women they say, boy, she's really good at this stuff. They'd been doing it all their lives, they had never had a return like that. It's corruption, folks. It's corruption.They understood that, by the way. They're smart, they got it very quickly.This will finally be the year the American people say, enough is enough. During a recent trip to Florida, I had a chance to spend some time with the incredible residents of Little Haiti, and you see what's going on in Haiti, it's a horrible thing. And you see what's going on with Clinton, it's a horrible thing. These are not fans of Clinton. That, I can tell you.They despise the Clintons for what they did to the Haitian people. New emails revealed by ABC News just yesterday show that during the deadly earthquake in Haiti, which killed over 150,000 people, the Clintons couldn't stop cashing in. They kept cashing in.As people were dying in Haiti, Clinton insiders were separating out requests from friends of Bill or William Jefferson Clinton VIPs so that their business interests or contracts would receive very special treatment, while those who were not special friends would be put permanently on the sidelines.And remember this. Hillary's brother, running a gold mine, put on the gold -- Tony, you saw Tony. Tony. Anybody want to hire Tony? He's put on the board of a big gold mine company, having to do with Haiti. It's so bad.Look, we're in a rigged system, folks. This is a rigged, rigged system. You saw so many of the things. I'll tell you, this WikiLeaks stuff is unbelievable. It tells you the inner heart -- you got to read it. And you got to maybe get it, because they're not putting it out. They want to put it out, but they can't do that, because without the media and without the press, Hillary Clinton would be nothing. She'd be nothing. Zero.And by the way, did everybody see the debate the other day, yes?So they had nine online polls. Some of them had us 90 to 10, 80 to 20. "Time Magazine " had like a massive -- look, "Time Magazine " is no friend of mine except they put me on the cover so much. Not because they like me, because they like selling magazines.But -- "Time Magazine " -- it was total destruction. And then the next morning, she walks in and says, did everybody see the debate? People go, yes, yes. Did we beat her or what? I look so forward --I do. I look so forward to the next one in Las Vegas.As Haiti's death toll from Hurricane Matthew is on the rise, we should never forget how Bill and Hillary Clinton handled Haiti the last time. To all our friends in Little Haiti -- they're great people. I mean, I spent a long time -- these are people that are incredible. They have the warmest feeling, the warmest heart. But to all of our friends in Little Haiti, your day of justice is coming, believe me.And it arrives on November 8. November 8, get out and vote.The new emails also show members of the Clinton team viciously attacking Catholics and Evangelicals. They attacked Catholics and evangelicals.Viciously.And that won't be tolerated but it won't be tolerated by the voters. Tell you what -- anybody of religion I really think you have to vote for Donald Trump to be honest with you. I really do believe it.And in all of the primaries you saw that. I wasn't expected to win with evangelicals but once we got started and once they heard my message as opposed to other people's messages we really -- we won big with evangelicals. They're incredible people.Remember the Johnson Amendment. We're gonna get rid of that Johnson Amendment. Just remember that.Hey folks, we have to get back to work. Our country's in trouble. We can't play games anymore. Smile. You believe it? Smile.And how about where it said to the public you say this, but to the others that give you the money you say that. I'll tell you. It's so revealing -- somebody's going to do a great book on that, because the press just did not -- little tiny stories, big, big things. Getting answers for debates and questions for debates, before the debate takes place. How about that?I'll tell you what. Can you imagine me, if any of this stuff pertained to me? Front page headlines all over the world, Donald Trump -- oh well, we've been there and we seem to be doing really well.Hillary Clinton, commonly referred to as Crooked Hillary, thinks that you -- all of you -- are deplorable and totally irredeemable.I actually think irredeemable is worse, I don't know. I'm the only one. Deplorable and irredeemable. Irredeemable meaning, meaning you can never, ever come back. I call you hard-working American patriots, and together we are going to save this country and we are going to make America great again.And it's hot as hell in here but I don't care.Call it Florida, right? Florida.Emails also show that the DNC vice-chair was feeding information -- so much information -- to the candidate. Oh man, I want that -- why can't the Republicans do that? Why can't Reince feed me information prior to a debate. I'm so angry at the Republicans -- I want to be fed information like Hillary gets.And we still beat her badly, right? So I mean what's the big deal? But I want information. The Republicans are not doing their job. They should be able to get me all of the questions prior to the debate.This all comes after a secret tape that shows Hillary Clinton calling Bernie voters -- now look Bernie -- I feel sorry for Bernie.He made a deal with the devil and he blew his reputation. But she called Bernie voters basement dwellers.So all of the Bernie votes out there, join our movement, like all of these young people. We're going to fix our trade deals and get special interests out of government.And by the way, by the time this ends, I'll have over a hundred million dollars of my money in this thing, right, which means that's $100 million of people that don't have to give me money and say, Donald, will you do this, will you do that, will you do that?That's a lot of money.And I asked her the other night, I said, you know, I will have over a hundred million and that's a lot of money. If I lose, I'm going to be so angry at Florida.I'll still love you, I think. Maybe not.You know, one of the pundits said, and you've heard me say this maybe, but they said, Mr. Trump, it doesn't matter whether you win or lose. You have done the single greatest job. nobody's ever done a thing like this before. No matter where we go it's like this. But...They said -- it's the single -- Bill O'Reilly said it, but many peoples said, it's the single greatest political phenomena they've ever seen. I said, wait a minute, you're wrong.If I don't win on November 8th, I will consider this the single greatest waste of time, energy and money of anything I've ever done, because we're not going to be able to reduce your taxes, we're not going to be able to save your Second Amendment, appoint Supreme Court judges, take care of you vets, fix up your depleted, very depleted -- the greatest people on earth -- but our military is so depleted.We're going to take care of a lot of things, including getting the drugs out. A vote for Hillary is a vote for more reckless foreign invasions. What a mess did she do -- does she go down as the all-time worst?More Wall Street cheating, more terrible trade deals. And as WikiLeaks showed, she wants to cut your Medicare and Social Security benefits. You didn't see that.See? And I'm not going to. The press doesn't report that she wants to cut your Social Security. And she wants to cut Medicare and one of the big advantages of me having a rather large microphone, meaning a lot of people are listening, is that I can talk about WikiLeaks and look it's on all the television networks live. We're live.Amazing.A vote for Trump is a vote for America First and it's a vote to protect Medicare and Social Security and lower your taxes.Big, big tax decrease. We're going to lower your taxes. WikiLeaks also shows something I've been warning about for a very, very long time. The media is simply an extension of the Clinton Campaign.It's one of the biggest ways that our system is rigged. And I was the first one to use that term when I was running in the primaries when I won Louisiana and I got fewer delegates than people that I beat easily.And my people said, oh no, that's the way the system -- I say, well then the system's wrong! How do you win a state and you get less delegates?And I said, this system is rigged! And it was, but we figured out how to win, right? Hat's what you need.By far. Wasn't even close.Reporters who work for these outlets like the Washington Post or the New York Times may think of themselves as journalists, but they're actually cogs for a corrupt political machine. That's the Clinton machine. The email show the New York Times, the Boston Globe, Univision who I sued -- I sued Univision, and I was very happy with what they did.And this lightweight, you know John Hardwood, this lightweight. This guy who came out, he was shaking. He was so nervous.He asked me the first question, "Mr. Trump, could you answer this question?" What a lightweight. They shoulda fired him for what he did.John Harwood. I hate to make him famous but -- 'cause nobody ever heard of him before, but a total lightweight of CNBC all doing favors for the Clintons.And reporters smothering the Clintons with praise. The New York Times even gave Clinton a call to give her a veto power over her quotes in a story that was already written. Nobody ever called me and said, "Hi, Mr. Trump. We wrote a story. Would you read the story and please give us a little feedback. Would you like us to take anything out?"This system is so rigged. Now, this is all down in the emails. She had veto power over what she said.I'll tell you what. I want to have that, too. I want to have veto power.I used to get such good publicity, folks. Now, I mean it's like -- it's incredible. I used to get -- my life was so simple.My life was so simple. I had a beautiful, simple life. It was going.I built an unbelievable company. And then I decide to do this, and my life became slightly more complex.You know, we have people in this audience right now that 18 years ago had one great job, they were making more money 18 years ago than they're making now. And now they have two and sometimes three jobs. In other words, they're older and they're working harder, and they're making less.Not a good -- not a good assemblage of facts. Here's the only good news. I'm also older and working harder than I've ever worked before.OK? That I can tell you.Including being in this wonderful area at 114 degrees temperature.By the way, let Hillary Clinton stand up here for an hour and talk the way I talk, and let's see how long she lasts folks.Oh, what a joke -- what a total joke. Our country's in such trouble. That's why I'm -- I -- it's just so ridiculous.The corporate media can't report on the establishment because the corporate media is the establishment, such a big part of it. We're going to break up the special interest monopoly, and we're going to win this country back for the American people. We're gonna do it, too.The emails also reveal that Hillary Clinton believes in global governments, unlimited immigration -- unlimited, much more than Obama. From the Middle East, come right in. Come right in.550 percent more than President Obama, who is grossly incompetent. He doesn't know what the hell he's doing.And why is he campaigning? We just had a horrible jobs report. We have no growth. You saw GDP at one percent -- we have no growth. We have a horrible jobs report. China is ripping us off. Japan is ripping us off with the cars. Mexico has a unbelievable deal with us, both on the border -- I mean, look at our trade deficit with Mexico. And China, and Vietnam, and everybody.Last year, our country had a trade deficit of almost $800 billion. $800 billion.Who the hell negotiates these deals? I mean, can you believe it? So I say, why the hell is Obama allowed to campaign for Hillary Clinton? He's always campaigning, and he's doing his little thing, you know, having a good time. He ought to be out in the White House. He's not there long. He ought to be there working and fixing some of these horrible trade deals and bringing jobs back to our country, not campaigning for a crooked person, for a totally dishonest and crooked person.Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said, my dream is a hemispheric common market -- that's not good for your jobs -- with totally open trade and open borders. 600 million people could pour into the United States. You'll have nothing left.Tell you, if that happens, I know the real estate here, I love the real estate here -- sell fast. Behind closed doors, when she thought no one was listening, she pledged to dissolve the borders of the United States of America. This all came out. She said she wants to dissolve the borders. And here I am saying, we want strong borders. We don't want drugs coming in. We don't want crime coming in. I don't know, maybe I'm wasting my time. Am I wasting my time? I don't think so.She doesn't want to have any borders. Total amnesty -- tell you what, folks. This is the last time you'll ever have a chance to save our country. It's not going to happen. You won't be able to. The numbers will be too great. Already, the Republican nominee has a massive disadvantage, and especially when you have the leaders not putting their weight behind the people. They're not putting their weight behind the people.Instead of calling me and saying, congratulations, you did a great job. You absolutely destroyed her in the debate, like everybody said -- you know, Pat Buchanan wrote the big article today, you saw it -- I'm not bragging, I'm just saying -- maybe a little bit, but here -- he said it was the single greatest debate performance in the history of presidential politics.So wouldn't you think that Paul Ryan would call and say, good going? In front of just about the largest audience for a second night debate in the history of the country. So you know, you'd think that they'd say, great going, Don. Let's go, let's beat this crook. She's a crook. Let's beat her. We got to stop it. No, he doesn't do that.There's a whole deal going on there. I mean, you know, there's a whole deal going on and we're going to figure it out. I always figure things out. But there's a whole sinister deal going on.Crooked Hillary wants to end forever the American independence that our founders gave us. Our great founders are spinning in their graves. Our founders are spinning in their graves like Douglas MacArthur, like George Patton, like our generals. They're spinning in their grave and by the way, General Flynn and all the generals -- over 200 admirals and generals have endorsed Donald Trump.Two hundred. Over 200.Twenty-one congressional Medal of Honor recipients have endorsed Donald Trump. I'll tell you, you know what I like? Very smart, tough people like me. I like that. The smart, tough people, they like Trump.American soldiers have fought and died to win and keep America's freedom and now Hillary Clinton wants to surrender that freedom to open borders, open trade, and world government. And I do believe in free trade but I believe more in smart trade.We're going to make great deals with other countries. We're going to bring jobs back. We're going to bring jobs back.I'm not running to be president of the world. I'm running to be president of the United States of America.Oh, I wish those cameras would turn so some time our friends back in New York and back in Pennsylvania and back in Ohio and all these different states, they could see the crowds but they do hear it. You know, when you hear the noise, they say they never show the crowd but you hear the crowd. You can't imitate that noise.We will never surrender the freedom and sovereignty of the United States. It's going to be America First, America First, America First.And yesterday, Hillary had Al Gore -- climate change. Now, I want -- just so you know -- do you know that I've won numerous environmental awards? I'm a believer in the environment. It's got to be within reason. I'm a believer. Here's what I want, though. I want immaculately clean water and I want immaculately clean air. That's what I want. That's called climate change. That's called environmental protectionBut Hillary had this deal. Very, very lightly attended and I watched on television as they said this is the largest crowd that she's had. You know what she's got? Like a tiny little fraction. Now, they're not going to say look at the crowd with Crooked Hillary yesterday. She had Al Gore get up, this poor guy.I don't know what the hell happened to him. What happened to him? She had Al Gore get up, because don't forget, Obama thinks that climate change is the single biggest and most dangerous problem for the world today.Not nuclear weapons in the hands of maniacs or in the hands of countries that hate us. No, no that's no problem. Climate change is our problem. I'll tell you how this going, how we're doing folks. If we don't win this election, I don't know what I'm going to do.I don't know. No, no can you imagine? Here's a guy where we have ISIS that he essentially founded, if you look. Remember I said, founded and he's going to get the medal for having -- and I kiddingly. But it's really not that kiddingly but then they put it on Mo Bisely, he found and I says, let me tell you something. When they pulled out of Iraq the way they -- we should have never been in Iraq and I was against it and they know it.But we should have never been in Iraq. But when we were, the way he pulled out, he announced when he's leaving, he pulled out everybody instead of leaving, groups behind. And they created a vacuum and ISIS was formed. Now think of this because the biggest thing that came out of the debate in my opinion, and it really came out of the first debate, which if I didn't have fixed microphone or a broken microphone, nobody's been able to tell me, but I watched.Couldn't talk very good because my mike didn't work. But I watched and I said you know, it's interesting. Hillary said she's going to do this and this and this but she's been there for 30 years, she never did it.And I said to her in the second debate, I said let me ask you a question. Let me -- and by the way, you know that so-called Commission on Presidential Debates, the head guy used to work for Bill Clinton. Did you know that? I just found that out. The head guy worked for Bill Clinton. What a rigged deal this is. But here's the story. I have no respect for that group by the way, I have none. It sounds good. Presidential commission, give me a break.That's why I was so happy what we did to annihilate the enemy the other day. So happy.Because we're dealing against a very dishonest system. But Hillary, so important, wants to have a radical, and this is very radical, immigration. She wants to radicalize immigration where you have people pouring in. Remember this, the border patrol agents, 16,500 gave me their endorsement. Last week, ICE, ICE, these are great people, you don't hear great things because they're not allowed to do their job.These are people that frankly, would work a lot less. I mean their job's easier if Hillary wins because basically all they have to do is stand there and watch people walk in front of them. ICE, these are great people. Tough people, smart people. First time in their history they endorse me, they've got to work harder, and they endorse me.And one of the things they told me that I thought was terrible is that she refused when she was Secretary of State to make foreign countries take back their criminal aliens. In other words, we have somebody in from a foreign country illegally. The person kills somebody, hurts somebody, robs a store, robs a bank, does all sorts -- sells drugs all over the place, poisons our youth. And we want to send them back to the country from which they came and they bring them back and the country says, we're not taking them.Because they're smart. They don't want them. So they bring them back into the United States and put him into our society. I guarantee you, and you can mark my words, and there's a lot of tape running, that won't happen once when Donald Trump is president; not once, guarantee you that.One convicted criminal alien, she allowed to go free -- totally free; killed a young girl named Casey Chadwick; beautiful young girl. The corrupt establishment in Washington wants to surrender America's borders, even as they send our troops overseas to protect the borders of other countries. She'll protect those borders, but not our borders.Casey Chadwick was a great example, and he was let free, and she should be alive today. Jamiel Shaw has a son -- had a son, a great young man, killed violently. And I don't know if you know, but killed violently by an illegal immigrant, shot three times in the face for no reason; somebody that wasn't supposed to be here.And you have -- you have case after case after case. We're not going to have it anymore. We're not going to be the stupid people anymore. We're not going to be the stupid, weak people anymore.A Trump administration will secure, control, defend and protect the borders of the United States, as sure as you are standing here today.We will 100 percent build the wall, 100 percent.Are you ready? Are you ready?And who is going to pay for the wall?100 percent. They just don't know it yet. They don't know it yet, but 100 percent. They'll pay for the wall.Hey, look, we're going to have a great relationship with Mexico and China and all of these countries that are ripping us off and now have no respect. They're going to make less and they're going to like us more. Funny how that works, but it's true. Mexico is making a fortune with trade. They're taking our jobs. So many things. They are going to respect us finally.We will stop the drugs from pouring into our country. Florida has seen a 470 percent increase in heroin deaths. Think of that -- think if you have a child -- 470 percent increase in heroin deaths since 2007. Think of that. Think of your kids and your grandkids.We're going to stop it. And most of it's coming across the southern border. And let me tell you, when we allow ICE and when we allow the Border Patrol agents and when we give them that big beautiful wall with a door in it so people can come in, but they have to come in legally; we want them to come in, but they have to come in legally.We will stop the drugs from poisoning our youth and others.But I have a message for the drug dealers, for the gang members and the criminal cartels: Your days are numbered, believe me; your days are numbered.Hillary also wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees. We don't know anything about them.This, even though she admitted in private according to WikiLeaks, just out, that she knows terrorists are trying to infiltrate -- she knows it -- they're trying to infiltrate our refugee program. So she said it just yesterday that she knows they're trying to come in through that method, and yet she wants 550 percent more than even Obama's staggeringly high numbers, thousands and thousands.We can't let it happen. And we all have a heart, and we'll build safe havens and we'll have the Gulf States pay because they're not doing their share. Believe me, they're not. They have plenty of money, they'll pay. We can't pay. We owe $20 trillion. 20 trillion, doubled during Obama years. Doubled. He doubled the debt during his years.In fact, the terrorists have already infiltrated our country. There are now 1,000 open ISIS investigations in our 50 states. A record. Attack after attack, including the recent terror strikes in New Jersey, New York, Minnesota, as well as the mall shooting in Washington, were made possible by our extremely open immigration system that's meant only to protect fools, and we're not fools.So let me state this clearly as I can. I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.She won't even use the word. She won't even use the term. Our incompetent president -- I call him our campaign president -- our incompetent president won't use the term radical Islamic terrorism. He won't use it. He tries to explain it. He spends hours trying to explain why. If you don't identify your problem, folks, you're never going to get rid of it. It's only getting worse.And remember, I said it before, we've started off when he became president with no ISIS. Nobody head the term ISIS, which he calls ISIL, right. You know why he does that? Because he likes disturbing all of you. He calls ISIL. But we started off, we had no ISIS. And now, 7 1/2 years later, they're in, they think, 32 countries.And she's going to get rid of them? I can tell you this. They are hoping and they are praying -- they are hoping and praying that Hillary Clinton becomes president of the United States, because they'll take over not only that part of the world. They'll take over this country, they'll take over this part of the world, believe me. They are hoping.And by the way, she likes to say, they want me -- I will be their worst nightmare. I'm going to be their worst nightmare.And she lied during the debate. Remember when I said the red line in the sand, right? She said, I wasn't Secretary of State then, all flustered, all crazy. She was there when they drew the line. I walked out, they said, you know, she was there. Oh, well, she sort of said she wasn't. She was there.It turned out to be a lie. And even the media said that they hated -- she lied about that. She lied about many things.She put Iran on the path to nuclear weapons. You know, this horrible Iran deal where they gave $400 million in cash, but it turned out to be $1.7 billion in cash. You couldn't fit that in the back of this arena, that's how much money it is.She gave -- they gave that much money to the terrorists, to our enemies. And by the way, our enemies aren't even nice to us. Now they're emboldened.You see the little boats going around our beautiful ships doing all sorts of little things to drive our people crazy. Folks, they're not gonna do that stuff when I'm president, I guarantee ya.You see the way they captured our ten sailors 'cause they were a little bit in the wrong waters. And instead of saying nicely, "Hey, listen. You gotta be over there a little bit", they humiliated the sailors, humiliated their families, and humiliated our country, right.And the only reason they let 'em go is that our payments of $150 billion started the next day. So stupid they're not.And when they fly -- they -- they flew right alongside of our -- our planes the other. You saw that? Their jet fighters.Right, you saw that? And when Putin is buzzing -- you know Hillary's tough with Russia.You ever notice anything that goes wrong, they blame Russia. Russia did it. They have no idea. We're being hacked because we have people that don't know what they're doing.They have people. But they always blame Russia and then they say, "Donald Trump is friends with Putin."I don't know Putin, folks. I promise. I don't know Putin.What the hell do I have to do with Putin? These people are professional con people. They're con.And this country can't have it. This country can't have it. And -- and by the way, Russia, which is buzzing our ships, right.You know, tough Hillary, tough Obama, they're buzzing. You saw that two weeks ago, buzzing, planes going by. They took over -- yeah, they took over.You look at Ukraine. They took over during -- that was Crimea. They took that over during Obama's reign.You know, tough Obama. He's so tough. He's so tough.So, look, we need competence and we need it fast. Hillary Clinton who turned Libya into a nightmare.How about Libya? How about Benghazi? How about -- how about Benghazi where Ambassador Stevens sent 600 different for messages to Hillary Clinton, and she didn't even respond.The only one she spoke to was that sleaze Sidney Blumenthal, her friend who Obama told her you cannot deal with, and she did behind Obama's back.A Trump Administration will stop the reckless interventions, and instead focus on defeating and totally destroying ISIS. We're also going to build up our cyber defenses. Cyber's a big thing.And keep our power grid and our vital infrastructure modern and safe. And the word "keep " is an incorrect word because we have to rebuild it. It's a mess.It's so old, it's falling apart. And we're going to use cyber offense to disrupt the enemy where we need to and keep them from recruiting online.ISIS is taking our children, and taking our kids out of our country because they're using the internet better than we know how to use it. And we're the ones that came up with it.At the same time, we're going to completely rebuild our very depleted military. We're going to take care of our people.And that includes building state-of-the-art systems of all kind. When it comes to keeping America safe, I believe in three very important words: peace through strength. We don't want to use the military.But it's got to be there.And just in closing, to be strong, our country has to be rich again. We're a debtor nation. We're poor. I'm going to make America rich again.My enemy -- our enemies are unbelievable. They love what's happening to our country. They love it. Our energy proposals won't lock the $50 trillion in energy reserves right here in America under our feet.This means new jobs in Florida and many, many other communities. Pennsylvania, Ohio, we're going to take care of our miners, we're going to take care of our steelworkers, we're going to take care of natural gas. We're going to have clean coal. We're going to also have all forms of advanced energy.We also have to repeal and replace it. We will do this and it's so important because it's driving everybody and small businesses and big businesses and our country out of business. Repeal and replace Obamacare.Bill Clinton, in a rare moment of truth-telling, said last week Obamacare was a crazy system where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. What kind of a system is this?Oh, did he suffer that evening. He went home aye yai yai, poor Bill. He suffered. You see, the next he came back and he said he was only kidding. He was only kidding. It's a disaster.Obamacare -- you know, your rates are going up 68 percent. In Texas they had 71 percent. In other communities they're going to go 95 percent and 100 percent, and next year is going to be worse. We have no choice but to absolutely repeal, replace Obamacare we're going to come up with a much better plan for much less money.As you know also, most counties in the state will only have one insurer to choose from. Obama does that because that way they have a monopoly so they can charge you whatever the hell they want.This is our chance to stop the abusive and horrible and -- and something that doesn't work, Obamacare, and save American healthcare, but you have to get out and vote.At the center of our economic revival, we'll be fixing our terrible trade deals. When I announced, seems like a long time now, June 16th coming down with Melania at the escalator, remember, in Trump Tower, was an amazing -- that was an amazing thing and we announced that it was a big part.And then I came out and I said Florida and our countries, we have all of these lost jobs. All of our lost manufacturing. We're going to get it back. We're bringing our jobs back.When countries come in and think they're going to steal our companies and our companies are going to go out and fire all of their employees in Florida, in Ohio, in Pennsylvania, in all of these countries. All of these -- everyone. We are not going to allow it to happen. We are not going to allow it.We are going to tell it, you are going to have consequences. The states are not going to put up with it anymore. Our federal government is going to help.We've built other countries at our expense. We have. So, if they come in like they did in Indiana -- where Mike Pence, by the way, is doing a great job.And they take -- in the case, they take -- Mexico takes care of your air conditioner, and they fire their 1,400 people who were so great to me.And they think they're going to make air conditioners in their beautiful new plant in Mexico, and sell them across the border and make lots of money, and we have all the employment. Not going to happen. We're going to put a 35 percent tax on and they're staying in the United States.And if they don't, we're going to make plenty of money.We are going to rebuild our country. Our country is going to be a country where you can be proud of again. We're going to use American steel, we're going to use American labor, we are going to come first in all deals.We're not going to make the trade deal where we come in fifth and sixth and seventh and other countries laugh at our stupidity. We are going to build great companies. We are going to expand companies that are now doing poorly. We are going to make our country very rich again.We are going to make our country very safe again.We are going to make America strong again. And we are going to make America great again. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.What a group. What a great state.Well, you know, I just landed and I was watching on the way in and I heard Fox saying that they have a couple of thousand people, well, this is not a couple of thousand people, folks. And over there, there's thousands of people trying to get in. I wish the fire department would let them in, in all fairness.We're outside, we don't need a fire marshal, we're outside. So fire marshal, will you let the people in please?I assume the fire marshal is a Democrat, I assume.And they couldn't get them all in either, they never can, because there's movement going on that's amazing, and in 27 days, we are going to win Florida, and we are going to win back...We're going to bring back our jobs, we're going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals. We're going to reduce surging crime, which is going down and bad, bad numbers. We're going to cut taxes, big league, and she is going to raise your taxes big league.We're going to get rid of many of our unnecessary regulations, lift the restrictions on American energy, and we're going to end Common Core.We're going to reduce to cost of college, which is going up in record setting pace, make child care affordable, so important. And we are going to repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.We're going to put America First and we're going to be united in our love for our country. We are a divided country right now, divided almost like never before. We are going to be a united country again.This election is a simple choice. It's a choice between putting our faith in a corrupt establishment or putting our faith in you, the American people.You know, I just said, in front of this big, big crowd. We just literally left, can't believe we're going to end up doing -- the last two weeks I said we're going to do four or five of these a day, can you believe that?Now, let me ask you. First of all, Hillary has very small crowds, nobody cares, but...How many of these do you think Hillary could do a day? Maybe a half. I was at this massive -- it was just like a really hot building. It was a steep toe, it was over 100 degrees, we went for an hour and 10 minutes, the people were unbelievable, and I said jokingly, I said if the people of Florida don't vote for me, I'm going to be very angry. And one of the news commentators said, Donald Trump admonished the people of Florida.And you know who I'm talking about. These guys are so crooked, their worse than Hillary Clinton.I think they might be more crooked than Hillary and that's saying a lot.I couldn't believe it, I'm watching it -- I said, I'm going to be so angry at the people of Florida, joking, everybody's joking, everybody's laughing, and he said, he admonished the people of Florida. They make us sound like such jerks, it's unbelievable. I tell you what, these are the most dishonest people you'll ever see. These are horrible, horrible people.It's a choice between the pessimism of the Hillary Clinton and the optimism of a move empowered by millions of people all over the country.She's been there for 30 years and hasn't don't anything but fail, take a look at what she's done. And during the last debate, which you know look, I want to partial and all, which I won big league, I mean that was not even close.How about this? I'm standing at the podium, my podium, I'm standing by my chair, right? I'm standing and she walks across, I said hi Hillary, how are you doing? She walks across, and she stands in front of me and then the next I wake up by saying, oh we got all good reviews. But wait, of all of the online polls, we won 10 out of 10 by big margins but forget it.Forget it, forget it. So I'm standing at my podium by my chair. She walks across the room, she's standing in front of me, right next to me, and the next day I say, what did the papers say? They say, he invaded her space. I invaded her space.Believe me, the last space that I want to invade is her space, believe me. I don't want to invade her space.We're still trying to let these poor people come in. Come on fire marshal, do your job.So -- so we love those people. You know they stand here for hours? They stand here for hours. And I'll tell you what, see that woman? She went down, she'll be back. They all come back.We had one yesterday in a tremendous heat wave. A tremendous -- I mean the place was hot. And then, you know, I always like to say it's 100 degrees because it is. Because some times if it's really hot and if I'm doing a little sweat -- not too much, I'm not too bad. We've all seen worse in the campaign trail, haven't we?But if I'm doing a little, they'll say, "Donald Trump was sweating." It's 109 degrees at these.But you know these people, when they go down they do go down. And they all come back. I don't even know if that's a good thing or a bad thing. But our friends have courage, it's unbelievable.Sorry about that. But make sure she's great. So the Department of Justice fed information to the Clinton campaign about the email investigation so that the campaign could be prepared when they came into the interview. Did you ever hear a thing?We have Mayor Giuliani one of the great mayors -- one of the great prosecutors. Where is he? Where is our mayor? Where is our mayor?As you know, he was one of the great prosecutors. He said, "As long as I've done this, I've never heard of anything." And what's happened with the FBI is so sad. And you have great, great people in the FBI and I wouldn't know -- although it looks like we're reading stories about it, they are so disgusted at what's gone on at the top.They cannot even believe what's going on with the great institution of the FBI. They cannot believe what is going at the FBI. These are unbelievable Americans, these are unbelievable people. They could not believe.And for the attorney general to meet in the back of an airport with Bill Clinton just prior to making this totally phony decision -- this totally disgusting, phony decision -- to meet in the back of an airplane because he just happened to be there -- he just happened.He just happened to be -- he was in Arizona -- a place that I love and a place that we're going to win big, by the way. You watch.See that plane, and other planes that I've had over the years -- I've never had anyone like, oh, I see someone on the runway. Oh, let them in for a little while, let's chat. Never anybody in years and years.But tell me -- then he left and nobody saw him on the golf course. By the way, isn't it shocking? He didn't get to play, I guess. Folks, what's happening to our country is a disgrace. It's never happened before. And in fact, she lied in front of Congress to such an extent -- and I'll tell you what, I'm very disappointed in Congress, both Republican and Democrat, that they don't find a way to do something.Because they give the information to the Department of Justice, they give the information that she lied to the FBI, and she could do whatever she wants to do and they're not going to prosecute her, because it's a total fix and it's a disgrace.This corruption is just one more reason why I will ask my attorney general to appoint a special prosecutor.And furthermore -- furthermore, we are going to investigate this phony investigation. It's a phony investigation. Hillary Clinton -- please. You know how expensive it is? Nobody ever heard of it. I have people very sophisticated in the world of emails and all of these things, they never even heard of the bleaching. The reason they did it, it's an unbelievably expensive process. Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after a congressional subpoena.So she gets a subpoena -- she gets a subpoena, and after -- not before, that wouldn't be bad. But after getting a subpoena to give over your emails and lots of other things, she deleted the emails. She has to go to jail.And her law firm, which is a very big and powerful law firm, which is the one that said, oh, they'll determine what they're giving -- those representatives within that law firm that did that have to go to jail.She then had 13 telephones -- and many of them were hammered dead. Now, how many people have gotten rid of a cell phone and hammered the hell of it? How? I need hands up, please, hands up. Did anybody hammer -- uh oh, he did. What's your business? Oh. Is he in the mob? What's your business?These are illegal acts. You know, if you do this privately, it's a criminal act. And look at what happened -- look at what happened to other people like General Petraeus for doing a tiny fraction. Their lives have been destroyed. She's running for president and she's being protected.And these people, the most dishonest people other than Hillary that you have, these people are protecting her because without the press, she is nothing. She is nothing.That woman was out cold and now she's coming back. See?We don't go by these new and very much softer NFL rules -- concussion, a little ding on the head, no, you can't play for the rest of the season. Our people are tough.So Americans, honestly, I've had it with the years and decades of Clinton corruption -- this corruption. This will finally be the year the American people can say enough is enough. Enough is enough.The Clintons are a very dishonest and very bad pairing. I mean, Bill Clinton was impeached for lying, he totally lied. He lost his law license. Remember this, you know, some people thought Hillary was smart. I don't think she's smart. Look how badly she performed in the last debate.Look, I thought she was terrible. Now, look, look, look at how badly she performed. She went to Washington, D.C., she took her bar exam and she failed, right? Oh, she's a genius.She failed the bar exam -- they'll go and check it, but trust me folks, she failed her bar exam. She couldn't pass it, so she went someplace else and got her license to hurt people.If we had a little -- if we had a little help from our very weak leadership, from the Republican leadership, we would be sailing like we've never sailed before. These are weak people.The new emails also show members of the Clinton team viciously attacking Catholics and Evangelicals.Hillary Clinton...So do you believe the last 10 days, five to six of these a day?I may be limping over the finish line, but we're going to get to that side.Here's what the press will report. "He said that he was going to limp over the line." Come on, Paul. You can do better, Carl. You can do better. Campaign Carl.Hillary Clinton thinks you're deplorable and irredeemable.I call you hard-working American patriots and together we are going to save our country.These emails also reveal that Crooked Hillary Clinton believes in global governance, unlimited immigration -- there goes your country.And world-wide corporations. Speaking in a select group -- to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said, "My dream is a hemispheric common market." There goes your -- there go the rest of your jobs. With open trade and totally open borders. OK. That's good. OK. No more country.You know what? I want to have free trade too, but I want to have smart trade. We have trade where we benefit for a change because we have lost our jobs, we have lost our money, we owe $20 trillion...We don't make our product anymore.We will build the wall.And Mexico will pay for the wall 100 percent, 100 percent.One hundred percent. Great people. I met with the president of Mexico, month and a half ago.I thought this was set up by the presidential commission on debates. So why don't you -- why don't you -- those guys are. Talk about a mic that didn't work in the first debate. You know what they said? The head guy came over and I said, "My mic wasn't working. Why didn't you fix it?" He said, "We knew it didn't work, but we wanted to find out. So as soon as the debate was over, we wanted to find out what the problem " -- oh thanks a lot. I appreciate it.We don't care if we stand in the rain, do we?I'll take my hat off. I'll get my hair nice and wet.That's the end of this suit. That's OK. Behind closed doors when she thought no one was listening, she pledged to dissolve the borders of the United States of America. Hillary wants to end forever the American independence that our soldiers fought for and died for to keep and protect us. We will never surrender the freedom and sovereignty of the United States of America.A Trump Administration will secure and defend our borders. Without borders, we don't have a country.Under the Obama-Clinton policies, illegal immigrants simply show up at the border and they're released into the United States. And that's why the Border Patrol agents in ICE are so upset. And it could be so easy for them.But these are great Americans. They want to do it right. And they know that what we're doing and who we're allowing into our country is wrong and bad for our country.I've met the family of Sarah Root, an unbelievable young girl killed the day after graduating from college with a 4.0 grade average -- the top of her class. Her killer was released by Obama, meaning the Obama representatives at the border. She should have been held.The killer should have been held, released against the will of agents by a policy that's sick and weak, and disgusting. Released, went on to kill. And kill again, and kill again.And Hillary wants to go even further. The ICE officers who endorsed me, their first endorsement ever, said that Hillary's plan is the most radical immigration proposal in United States history. Hillary also wants to increase Syrian refugees by 550 percent over Obama.Think of it. Obama's letting 'em in by the thousands. By the way, this guy only does is campaign, he is the worst.This -- even though she admitted in private according to WikiLeaks -- I -- don't you wish the press would pick up WikiLeaks and report it?What -- what they said about the Justice Department, what they said about Catholics, what they said about Evangelicals, they must be dying watching this. But you know what? They know it's OK 'cause they know it's not gonna be properly reported.But she knows the terrorists are trying to infiltrate through the refugee program. She said that. She knows that's gonna happen.And yet the refugees, she wants to pour in. The terrorists have already infiltrated our country.There are now 1,000 open ISIS investigations in all 50 states. Attack after attack, including the recent terrorist strikes in New Jersey and New York, Minnesota that were made possible by our extremely open and extremely weak immigration system. The Orlando terrorist was the son of a Taliban supporter who sat right behind Hillary during a speech, from Afghanistan.The examples go on and on. The shooter in San Bernardino, the killer who slaughtered four Marines in Chattanooga, Tennessee, the recent mall shooter in Washington state were all admitted by authorities into the United States. They should never have been allowed to come in to our country.So let me state this clearly. I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.At the same time we're going to completely rebuild our very dilapidated -- look. Our military. It's in such -- these are the greatest people on earth. Our military is completely -- we're gonna rebuild our military.That includes building a state of the art missile defense system. We are going to be protected. We are going to be strong. We are going to be strong. We are going to take care of our great veterans. Our veterans have been horribly treated.When it comes to keeping America safe I believe in three very important words. Peace through strength.But a strong country -- we have to be a rich country. Sad. A woman came up, she said, "Mr. Trump that doesn't sound nice." Sorry folks. We want to protect your Social Security. We want to protect your Medicare. She won't be able to do it. Hillary doesn't have a clue.Take a look at what she did to New York State. She said she was going to bring 200,000 jobs to upstate New York. It was a total disaster. People poured out of New York. They poured out of upstate New York.I am going to make America rich again.The Paris Climate deal -- and I believe so much in the environment. Believe it or not, people are shocked -- I've won many environmental awards. Many. But the Paris deal, supported by Hillary, will cost our country another $5.3 trillion over a period of time and skyrocket electricity prices in a very great state that's my second home. What's that state?We will cancel this deal so that our companies can compete. And again, we want clean beautiful air. And we want crystal clear water. That's what we want. And we want to be able to do business throughout the world, not so that we can't compete because of these crazy deals that our president is making.We are going to unlock the $50 trillion in energy reserves right here under your feet in America.This means many new jobs in Florida and all across America. That also means cheaper energy for our farmers, cheaper energy for everybody. We're going to take care of Florida farmers, and Florida agriculture. And we're going to take care of our steelworkers who are under siege from China, and we're going to take care of our miners who are practically being put out of business.The Obama-Clinton crew spent $50 billion on climate programs when they should have used that money to help Florida farmers fight diseases that threaten your crops. And that's happening all over. And by the way, when Clinton was Secretary of State, missing, missing, or gone, nobody can figure it out -- maybe someday they will, and maybe they'll never find it -- missing. Six billion dollars -- oh but she'll be a wonderful president. She's going to be -- she'll be a wonderful president.Remember, ISIS -- here was ISIS when she started. Now, ISIS is in 32 different countries, and now she stands up, "I will fight ISIS very hard."You're funny. "We're going to fight ISIS very, very hard."There was no ISIS. She created the vacuum, along with our incompetent president. She created the vacuum and ISIS formed. This money should have been invested in infrastructure, like the Hoover Dam.A Trump administration will invest in projects like dams and railroads and fast trains and grids. Our electrical grid is obsolete and dangerous. We will return the EPA to its core mission. That same clean air and clean water that I just mentioned, and that means the water for Lakeland, and we have to remember that, right?Unless you don't want this. Everybody likes clean water, maybe.OK. Well, I promise it will be crystal clear, crystal clear. OK?Just -- I'm just testing you. I'm just testing. I thought maybe you wouldn't mind. We could save a couple of bucks for the country. OK?At the center of our -- and that's very true, yes. At the center of our economic revival, we'll be fixing our terrible trade deals. When I announced I was running, who knew this was going to happen? Remember? All of these guys, they can't believe what's going on. I'll tell you. These crooked people back there, they cannot believe it.I have a lot of friends who made a lot of money betting because when they had me down to three percent. I had a friend -- he's one of the smartest guys in business. He said, "You know what, Donald? In all fairness, I'll bet on you at three percent any time." That made a lot of money.But one by one, we knocked them off, right? I knocked them off for you. The movement knocked them off -- one by one by one by one; governors. There was a time when I was three or four months into it, where it said, "Trump has four months of experience, and all of the people he's running against have 233 years." So it's four months versus 233 years, and here we are, folks.You see, because as I've always said, experience is very important, but competence is much more important. I've always said that. I know.Forty-seven million Americans are in poverty. And 45 million Americans are on food stamps. This is the legacy of Obama-Clinton. My economic agenda will take in the opposite direction, and it can be summed up in three such beautiful, beautiful words, jobs, jobs, jobs.The great state of Florida, my state, your state, has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton -- the single worst trade deal ever signed, ever negotiated in the history of the world. OK? Not here -- in the history of the world.You look at New England, you look at Florida, you look at Pennsylvania, Ohio, Michigan -- poor Michigan. I've been fighting for Michigan, and they don't listen, but now they're going to listen, because I'm going to bring the auto industry back to Michigan. I've been talking about it for a long time.So, her husband signs NAFTA. NAFTA's a disaster. Hillary Clinton's South Korea deal was supposed to be wonderful for the United States. Great. It was great for South Korea. For the United States, we lost at least 100,000 jobs.Since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster, 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States.So when I saw that number, I said, wait a minute, go back, it's a mistake. Can't be seven -- maybe 7,000, maybe 700. Can't be 70,000. Ready, 70,000 factories -- now that won't fact check, oh, it was 69.99 -- these people are the worst.Seventy thousand, I really thought they'd made a mistake. That's 15 factories closing a day on average. We have real geniuses in Washington. Don't we?You know, we have people here today who made more money 18 years ago than they're making now. They had one job instead of two and they were a lot younger.So they're older, they make less and they have two and three jobs. Supposed to be the other way. But I always say, you're working harder now than you ever did before and you're older. Well I'm working harder now than I ever did before and I'm older, too, so I don't feel sorry for you.Companies like Carrier, General Electric, Motorola, Mattel, Fiat and Chrysler, and so many other are moving their jobs to Mexico and other places and now Florida has just announced it's moving all of its small car production to Mexico.If and when I win, we are going to renegotiate the disaster known as NAFTA. We're going to renegotiate.And if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA, we will get out of NAFTA, we'll start all over again and believe me, we're going to make some great deals and I do believe -- I believe totally in free trade, but it's got to be fair trade.It's got to be trade when like some -- let's -- let's let some of the crumbs come our way. You know what we get? We get the drugs and the unemployment. Mexico gets the jobs, the factories, the money, the income.We get the drugs, they get the cash. Oh, isn't that wonderful. Our youth is being poisoned. Our people are being poisoned with the drugs that are pouring across that border. We're going to end that very fast.We will also stop the Transpacific Partnership, the deal that Hillary Clinton in the debate swore that -- she said, I never said that there was a gold standard.The crazy fact checkers said, I was right. I can't believe it. She did say -- and you know what, if she ever got into that deal, nothing's as bad as NAFTA, but that deal will be -- trust that will take a lot of your jobs out of Florida.That will take a lot of your jobs out of everywhere, but it will take a lot of your Florida jobs. The backers of that deal have donated heavily to Hillary Clinton and they want her to get that deal approved.It's a very bad deal for our country. It's going to take more jobs, it's a very, very bad deal. TPP, hopefully I'm there, I will end it so fast and we'll make deals with individual countries, not this big web of complicated stuff over 5,000 pages that nobody from our country even reads.Don't forget Obamacare. Thousands and thousands of pages and in Congress I think they said almost nobody even read it. And that's why -- look, it was a disaster anyway, whether they read it or not.But TPP is great for other countries, but bad for us. We'll do it nice and simple. We like a country...MORE. -- whether they read it or not. But TPP is great for other countries but bad for us. We'll do it nice and simple. We like a country? Boom, we do a trading deal. Another one, we do a trading deal. Another one.And if they don't behave, and if they don't live up to the deal, we send them what's called a notice of termination, 30 days. It's a 30 day notice of termination, and believe me, they will come back so fast, sir, Mr. President, is there a way I can make this deal better for our country? I'll say, yes, we'll do it, but we're going to make it even better now, OK.But we have a nice, simple pad. Not this crazy web -- did you ever see this TPP? They've got arrows all over the place going to different countries. We will be free traders, but we will free trade with our friends. We will be smart. We will be smart. And we'll bring back jobs, and we'll begin making product again. We'll begin making things.My dream as president, one of many, will be to have Apple and companies like Apple start to make their iPhones and other products in the United States, not in China and Vietnam and all of the other countries they're making them in.Hillary Clinton is an insider. She fights for herself. I'm an outsider -- used to be an insider, to be honest with you, OK. I know the inside and I know the outside. And that's why I'm the only one that can fix this mess, folks. Believe me.I know the inside very well. And you know what? It's a lot easier from my position, being on the inside. But I felt I had to do this. This country has been great to me. It's been great to my family, and I felt I had to do this. And the fact that I know -- who is more of an insider than me? In all fairness, nobody, practically, nobody. So I know it from the inside and I know it from the outside, and the outside is a lot tougher, but I owe it to my country and I know I really owe it.We have such great people in this country. We're going to fix this country. We're going to get rid of these corrupt politicians.And we're going to do it right. By the time I finish, I'll have over $100 million into my campaign. Think of that. That's a lot of money. Financed the primaries, financed this -- we have a lot of money coming in from the small donors. It never happened to a Republican before where they have this kind of money. Small donors average $61.But you know what? It's so important. And one of these characters said, it doesn't matter if you win or lose, because what you've done has never been done in the history of this country, meaning this great movement -- look at the people where they are. They did let some of those people in. That's fantastic. Thank you.Look at that. Look where that guy is. But you know what? We are going to do things, and it's so important. And I said, it does matter whether we win or lose. And let me tell you, if I don't win on November 8th, he said, you'll go down in history.Now Bernie won't go down in history. You know why? Because he made a deal with the devil. Had Bernie not made that deal, he would have gone down as a major footnote in political history. Bernie sold out to the devil. He sold out to the devil.I mean, his ideas are different than our ideas, other than he knew we were being ripped off on trade, which he's right about, but we can fix it, he couldn't.But Bernie Sanders sold out to the devil and he's gone. And now when he goes and speaks, nobody shows up anymore. Sad. We can't let that happen to us.But I said to this pundit, I said, no, you're wrong. If I lose, I will consider it the biggest waste of time, energy, and money that I've ever done in my entire life. True. So I'm not controlled by the special interests. You're my only special interest, folks, I'm telling you.It's the people's voice be heard, and on November 8th the whole world is going to hear your voice, and the whole world is going to see what's going to happen in the United States of America.They're going to hear you say that it's time to put America First once more.We're going to start making things again in our country, and part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we're going to lower your business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent. New companies, forget it for them.People are going to get jobs. You saw the last jobs report was a disaster. I said that "can't be the last one before the election", they said "no, there's another one, " then they came back and said "no, sir we made a mistake." That's the last jobs, take a look at the jobs report that came out last week, it is a disaster.Take a look at GDP, we're at one percent. If China was at one percent, it would be a national disaster. They go to seven, and eight, and nine percent, and they consider it horrible. We go to one percent, and we just keep going along folks. That means we're literally going in the wrong direction. We're also going to fix our inner cities, it's so important to me. And we're going to help our African American great people.And our Hispanic American great people. Forty-five percent of African American youth live in poverty. African Americans have a really horrible loan rate of home ownership, far lower than the rest of the population; not good, 41 percent. Fifty-eight percent of African American youth don't have jobs.More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year. You don't hear these people back here, they don't want you to hear, because they want Crooked Hillary to get in.We have -- wait -- we have the highest murder rate in this country in 45 years. More people are being murdered now than being murdered in 45 years. So, you look at our inners cities -- you look at our inner cities, the education is no good, the schools are horrible, they education's a disaster. People are being shot walking to the grocery store, their kids are being killed. It's a disaster. There's no jobs, and there's no hope, and then for years, the Democrats have wrought the inner cities, without abate.Seventy-five years -- 75 years, so here's what I said, we ought to fix the inner cities. I've look at African Americans and I say "what the hell do you have to lose, we're going to fix it, " we're going to fix it, I promise.That's so cool, I didn't tell them, that's cool. But listen, what do we have to lose, what do you have to lose? Is it going to get worse? Look at the crime rate, look at the -- the education, look at the jobs; the jobs are nonexistent. Same thing for Hispanic Americans, you take a look at what they're going through, and it's so unfair. And I see all these "Women for Trump " signs, I love this, I don't --"Women for Trump, " I don't get these polls. Every place I go I see hundreds of women for Trump and then I see a poll. He's not doing well with women. I don't know, I don't know.You know, my daughter Ivanka, she wants child care and she can care all of them but you know women want safety for our country, they want a strong military, they don't want crime in our cities, they want to be protected by law and order. They want law and order. The women in this country want what I'm saying and we are really -- I think we're saying it very strong. So, to the African Americans I say I will fix it. To the Hispanic Americans I say I will fix it. I will fight for you harder than anybody has ever fought for you. That's all of you. That's all of you. That's everybody.We are going to make America strong again. We are going to make America safe again. We are going to make America rich again and we are going to make America great again. Thank you, God bless you everybody. God bless you. God bless you.Thank you.Thank you, folks. It's great to be right here in Florida, which we love.In 26 days, we are going to win this great, great state and we are going to win the White House.Our movement is about replacing a failed and corrupt -- now, when I say "corrupt, " I'm talking about totally corrupt -- political establishment, with a new government controlled by you, the American people.There is nothing the political establishment will not do -- no lie that they won't tell, to hold their prestige and power at your expense. And that's what's been happening.The Washington establishment and the financial and media corporations that fund it exist for only one reason: to protect and enrich itself.The establishment has trillions of dollars at stake in this election. As an example, just one single trade deal they'd like to pass involves trillions of dollars, controlled by many countries, corporations and lobbyists.For those who control the levers of power in Washington, and for the global special interests, they partner with these people that don't have your good in mind. Our campaign represents a true existential threat like they haven't seen before.This is not simply another four-year election. This is a crossroads in the history of our civilization that will determine whether or not we the people reclaim control over our government.The political establishment that is trying to stop us is the same group responsible for our disastrous trade deals, massive illegal immigration and economic and foreign policies that have bled our country dry.The political establishment has brought about the destruction of our factories, and our jobs, as they flee to Mexico, China and other countries all around the world. Our just-announced job numbers are anemic. Our gross domestic product, or GDP, is barely above 1 percent. And going down. Workers in the United States are making less than they were almost 20 years ago, and yet they are working harder.But so am I working harder, that I can tell you.It's a global power structure that is responsible for the economic decisions that have robbed our working class, stripped our country of its wealth and put that money into the pockets of a handful of large corporations and political entities.Just look at what this corrupt establishment has done to our cities like Detroit; Flint, Michigan; and rural towns in Pennsylvania, Ohio, North Carolina and all across our country. Take a look at what's going on. They stripped away these town bare. And raided the wealth for themselves and taken our jobs away out of our country never to return unless I'm elected president.The Clinton machine is at the center of this power structure. We've seen this first hand in the WikiLeaks documents, in which Hillary Clinton meets in secret with international banks to plot the destruction of U.S. sovereignty in order to enrich these global financial powers, her special interest friends and her donors.So true.Honestly, she should be locked up.Should be locked up.And likewise the emails show that the Clinton machine is so closely and irrevocably tied to the media organizations that she -- that she -- listen to this -- is given the questions and answers in advance of her debate performance with Bernie Sanders.Hillary Clinton is also given approval and veto power over quotes written about her in the New York Times.They definitely do not do that to me, that I can tell you. And the emails show the reporters collaborate and conspire directly with the Clinton campaign on helping her win the election all over.With their control over our government at stake, with trillions of dollars on the line, the Clinton machine is determined to achieve the destruction of our campaign, not gonna to happen.Which has now become a great, great movement, the likes of which our country has never seen before, never ever.They've never seen a movement like this in our country before. Yesterday in Florida, massive crowds, people lined up outside of big arenas, not able to get in. Never happened before. It's one of the phenomenas -- it's one of the great political phenomenas. The most powerful weapon deployed by the Clintons is the corporate media, the press.Let's be clear on one thing, the corporate media in our country is no longer involved in journalism. They're a political special interest no different than any lobbyist or other financial entity with a total political agenda, and the agenda is not for you, it's for themselves.And their agenda is to elect Crooked Hillary Clinton at any cost, at any price, no matter how many lives they destroy.For them it's a war, and for them nothing at all is out of bounds. This is a struggle for the survival of our nation, believe me. And this will be our last chance to save it on November 8th, remember that.They will attack you, they will slander you, they will seek to destroy your career and your family, they will seek to destroy everything about you, including your reputation. They will lie, lie, lie, and then again they will do worse than that, they will do whatever is necessary. The Clintons are criminals, remember that. They're criminals.This is well documented, and the establishment that protects them has engaged in a massive coverup of widespread criminal activity at the State Department and the Clinton Foundation in order to keep the Clintons in power.Never in history have we seen such a coverup as this, one that includes the total destruction of 33,000 emails; 13 iPhones, some by hammer; laptops; missing boxes of evidence; and many, many other things.People who are capable of such crimes against our nation are capable of anything. And so now we address the slander and libels that was just last night thrown at me by the Clinton machine and the New York Times and other media outlets, as part of a concerted, coordinated and vicious attack.It's not coincidence that these attacks come at the exact same moment, and all together at the same time as WikiLeaks releases documents exposing the massive international corruption of the Clinton machine, including 2,000 more emails just this morning.These vicious claims about me of inappropriate conduct with women are totally and absolutely false.And the Clintons know it, and they know it very well. These claims are all fabricated. They're pure fiction and they're outright lies. These events never, ever happened and the people said them meekly fully understand. You take a look at these people, you study these people, and you'll understand also.The claims are preposterous, ludicrous, and defy truth, common sense and logic. We already have substantial evidence to dispute these lies, and it will be made public in an appropriate way and at an appropriate time very soon.These lies come from outlets whose past stories and past claims have already been discredited. The media outlets did not even attempt to confirm the most basic facts because even a simple investigation would have shown that these were nothing more than false smears.Six months ago, the failing New York Times wrote a massive story attacking me, and the central witness they used said the story was false; that she was quoted inaccurately. She said that I was a great guy. She had great courage, I'll be honest with you. She was an amazing person. And never made those remarks -- that I was a great guy, and never made the remarks. And when I read the story, I was sort of surprised -- how could she say that? And she didn't say it.We demanded a retraction but, they refused to print it, just like they refused to pin the comments from another source who praised me in her book, or the words of another wonderful woman who said really nice things about me. They put other statements that she didn't say, they misrepresented. The story was a fraud and a big embarrassment to The New York Times and it was a big front page story. Front page, center, color picture, a disgrace. They were very embarrassed, it will be part of the lawsuit we are preparing against them.Now, today the same two discredited writers, who should've been fired from The New York Times for what the did, tell another totally fabricated and false story, that supposedly took place on an airplane more than 30 years ago. Another ridiculous tale, no witnesses, no nothing.Then, there was a writer from People Magazine, who wrote a story on Melania and myself on our first anniversary. The story was beautiful, it was beautiful, it was lovely. But, last night we hear that after 12 years -- this took place 12 years ago, this story -- a new claim that I made inappropriate advances during the interview to this writer...And I asked very simple question, why wasn't it part of the story that appeared 20, or 12 years ago? Why wasn't it a part of the story? Why didn't they make it part of the story? I was one of the biggest stars on television with The Apprentice and I would've been one of the biggest stories of the year. Think of it, she's doing this story on Melania, who was pregnant at the time. And Donald Trump, our one year anniversary and she said I made inappropriate advances, and by the way, the area was a public area, people all over the place.Take a look, you take a look. Look at her, look at her words. You tell me, what you think. I don't think so -- I don't think so.But, it is amazing, doing a story -- a love story -- on how great we are together -- and by the way, we're stronger today than we ever were before which is good, but...It's a love story -- it's a love story on our one year. And if I did that, she would've added that it would've been the headline. And who would've done that if you're doing this and you're one of the tops shows on television.This invented account has already been debunked by eyewitnesses who were there -- they were there. The very witness identified by the author has said the story is totally false.By the way, this is a room that everybody can see in. It's got glass walls. It's at Mar-A-Lago; it's got glass walls. Can you believe this? Why wasn't it in the story, biggest story of the year.This weekend the New York Times published a full-page hit piece with another claim from an individual who has been totally discredited based on the many, many, many emails and letters she has sent to our office over the years, looking for work, Donald is great, wanting go to my rallies. But, the New York Times -- and this was full op-ed piece -- refused to use the evidence that we presented -- refused to use it. If they used it, if they would have looked, they would have said, there's no story here.Others in the media, which almost surprises me because they're dishonest also, were presented with the story by this woman numerous times, and they got very excited. But, after seeing the evidence that we immediately give them, all of them refused to write the story. There was no story.The Times, though, didn't want to see it, they just wrote the story. And this was a full page opposite the editorials. This is part of a concerted effort, led by the New York Times and others. Now the New York Times is fighting desperately for its relevance and its financial survival. And it probably won't even be around in a few years, based on its financial outlook. Which wouldn't be a bad thing, if you want to know the truth.But, as it winds down its years and is becoming more and more problematic, it's gotten more and more vicious, more and more vile. And even the other mainstream media is talking about the single greatest pile on in history, and all between now and November 8th. And you have to see the stories they've written, it's one after another, after another, and facts mean nothing, third-rate journalism. The great editors of the past from the New York Times and others, ladies and gentlemen, are spinning in their grave.I will not allow the Clinton machine to turn our campaign into a discussion of their slanders and lies, but, will remain focused on the issues facing the American people.Thank you, thank you. But, let me state this as clearly as I can, these attacks are orchestrated by the Clintons and their media allies. The only thing Hillary Clinton has going for herself is the press, without the press, she is absolutely zero.And you saw that the other night in the debate, where some people said she made virtually a fool of herself. This is not presidential material, believe me. What they say is false and slanderous in virtually every respect. We are now less than a month from the most election of our lifetime. Indeed one of the most important elections in the history of our country. And the polls are showing us in a dead heat. Don't believe what you say.The new, highly respected Rasmussen poll just came out this morning. Just released. Shows up nationally 2 points ahead, Trump. Beautiful.Just came out. So now the Clinton machine has put forward a small handful of people out of tens of thousands of people over the years that I've met, that I've worked with, that I've employed, in order to make wild and false allegations that fail to meet even the most basic test of common sense. Not even common sense.Again, this is nothing more than an attempt to destroy our movement and for the Clintons to keep their corrupt control over our government. When I declared my candidacy, I knew what bad shape our country was in. And believe me all you have to do is look at world events. All you have to do is look at the $1.7 billion that we sent to Iran in cash. In cash.All you have to do is see the way ISIS was created in the vacuum left by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama out of Iraq. All you have to do, all you have to do, is look at the 800 people that were very, very not good for our nation. They were going to be deported. Lo and behold, instead of being deported, they were made citizens of the United States. Just recently.And lo and behold, sadly, the 800 people is wrong. It turned out to be close to 1,800 people. Our president is incompetent. All he wants to do is campaign, and the last thing he wants to happen is to have Donald Trump terminate Obamacare and do all of the other things that are destroying...He's led a very divided nation and it's only gotten worse. And the last thing our country needs is four more years of Barack Obama, believe me. I've seen first hand the corruption and the sickness that has taken over our politics. You've seen it and I've seen it and we're all watching together.They knew they would throw every lie they could at me and my family and my loved ones. They knew they would stop at nothing to try to stop me. But I never knew, as bad as it would be, I never knew it would be this vile, that it would be this bad, that it would be this vicious.Nevertheless, I take all of these slings and arrows gladly for you.I take them for our movement so that we can have our country back.Our great civilization, here in America and across the civilized world has come upon a moment of reckoning. We've seen it in the United Kingdom, where they voted to liberate themselves from global government and global trade deal, and global immigration deals that have destroyed their sovereignty and have destroyed many of those nations. But, the central base of world political power is right here in America, and it is our corrupt political establishment that is the greatest power behind the efforts at radical globalization and the disenfranchisement of working people. Their financial resources are virtually unlimited, their political resources are unlimited, their media resources are unmatched, and most importantly, the depths of their immorality is absolutely unlimited.They will allow radical Islamic terrorists to enter our country by the thousands.They will allow the great Trojan horse -- and I don't want people looking back in a hundred years and 200 years and have that story be told about us because we were led by inept, incompetent and corrupt people like Barack Obama and like Hillary Clinton. We don't want to be part of that history.And by the way, President Obama should stop campaigning and start working on creating jobs, start working on getting our GDP up, start working on strengthening our borders.The corrupt political establishment is a machine, it has no soul. I knew these false attacks would come. I knew this day would arrive, it's only a question of when. And I knew the American people would rise above it and vote for the future they deserve.We are going to have a policy, America First.They control incredibly, the Department of Justice.And they even secretly meet with the Attorney General of the United States.In the back of her airplane, while on the runway -- remember he was there -- he was going to play golf. There's the Attorney General. Let me go say hello -- plane's on the runway. Let me go say hello to the attorney general. He never got to play golf, I understand. And it was Arizona, a place I love, but, the weather was about a hundred and some odd degrees -- he's not gonna play. He was never there to play golf, folks, don't be foolish.They met for 39 minutes and most likely it was to discuss her re- appointment, in a Clinton administration, as the Attorney General, just prior to making a decision over whether or not to prosecute Hillary Clinton. OK? That's what happened, that's called real life and that's pretty sad.They met for 39 minutes. Remember he said, we talked golf, and we talked about our grandchildren.Three minutes for the grandchildren, two minutes for the golf, then they sat there and they twiddled their thumbs. Now I believe they talked about her remaining in her position under a Crooked Hillary Clinton administration. That's what I believe -- that's what I believe folks. That's what I believe and I think that's what most people in this room believe.Likewise they've essentially corrupted the Director of the FBI to the point at which stories are already saying that the great -- and they are truly great -- men and women who work for the FBI are embarrassed and ashamed of what he's done to one of our truly great institutions, the FBI itself.Hillary Clinton is guilty, of all the things that Director Comey stated at his press conference and Congressional hearings, and far more. He stated many things, but it's far more and he knows that. And yet, after reading all of these items, where she's so guilty, he let her off the hook. While other lives, including General Petraeus and many others, have been destroyed for doing far, far less. This is a conspiracy against you the American people and we cannot let this happen or continue.This is our moment of reckoning as a society and as a civilization itself. I didn't need to do this, folks, believe me -- believe me. I built a great company, and I had a wonderful life. I could have enjoyed the fruits and benefits of years of successful business deals and businesses for myself and my family. Instead of going through this absolute horror show of lies, deceptions, malicious attacks -- who would have thought? I'm doing it because this country has given me so much, and I feel so strongly that it's my turn to give back to the country that I love.Many of my friends and many political experts warned me that this campaign would be a journey to hell. Said that. But they're wrong. It will be a journey to heaven, because we will help so many people that are so desperately in need of help.In my former life I was in insider, as much as anybody else. And I knew what it's like, and I still know what it's like to be an insider. It's not bad, it's not bad. Now I'm being punished for leaving the special club and revealing to you the terrible things that are going on having to do with our country. Because I used to be part of the club, I'm the only one that can fix it.I'm doing this for the people and for the movement, and we will take back this country for you and we will make America great again.The corrupt establishment knows that we are a great threat to their criminal enterprise. They know that if we win their power is gone, and it's returned to you, the people, will be. The dark clouds hanging over our government can be lifted and replaced with a bright future. But, it all depends on whether we let the corrupt media decide our future, or whether we let the American people decide our future.If this Clinton campaign of destruction is allowed to work, then no other highly success -- and this is so true -- I mean I've seen this so many times, and I've heard this all of my life -- I've heard it all of my life. If we let this happen, then no other highly- successful person, which is what our country needs -- it needs a certain thinking. When you look at our trade deals that are so bad. When you look, as an example, on trade, we're going to lose almost $800 billion this year, trade deficit, almost $800 billion. Our debt has doubled in seven and a half years to almost $20 trillion, under Obama.I will not lie to you. These false attacks are absolutely hurtful. To be lied about, to be slandered, to be smeared so publicly, and before your family that you love, is very painful. What is going on is egregious beyond any words. People that know the story, people that see the story, people that know the facts, they can't even believe it. It's reprehensible beyond description, it's totally corrupt.But, I also know that it's not about me, it's about all of you and it's about our country, I know that, I fully understand that. That's why I got involved. It's about all of us together as a country. It's a movement the likes of which we have never in history in this country seen before, never in history. Even the pundits, even the media -- that truly dislikes Donald Trump for their own reasons -- will admit this is a movement the likes of which people have never seen before. And it's a movement about the veterans who need medical care.The mothers who've lost their beloved children to terrorism and to crime. It's about the inner cities and the border towns who desperately need our help. It's about the millions of jobless people in America. It's about the American workers who can't get jobs because our jobs have left for Mexico and so many other countries.This election is about the people being crushed by Obamacare. And it's about defeating ISIS and appointing a Supreme Court and a Supreme Court Justice -- it could be four or five -- who will defend and protect our Constitution.This election is also about, so importantly to me, African-American and Hispanic-American people whose communities have been plunged into crime, poverty and failing schools by the policies of Crooked Hillary Clinton. Believe me, she's crooked.They've robbed these citizens of their future and, if we win, I will give them their hope, their jobs, their education. I will give them their security back. The inner cities, education is almost worthless, it's horrible. We're going to have Common Core ended.We're going to bring education local.But, you look at the inner cities and you see bad education, no jobs, no safety. You walk to the grocery store with your child and you get shot. You walk outside to look and see what's happening, and you get shot. In Chicago 3,000 people have been shot since January 1st. We're not going to let that happen. Our inner cities are almost at an all-time low, run by the Democrats for sometimes more than a hundred years, chain unbroken. So they have no jobs, they have horrible education, they have no safety or security, and I say to the African-American community, what the hell do you have to lose? I will fix it -- I will fix it, I will make it good, I'll bring back our jobs. We'll have good education, we'll have great safety in the inner city.And we will help the Hispanic-American people, who have been treated so badly and so unfairly in our nation, we will help them.I will deliver like you've never seen before, I deliver. Whether people like Donald Trump or not, they all say he delivers.Vote for Donald Trump. You're going to see something and you'll be so happy, you'll be so thrilled. This election is about every man, woman and child in our country who deserves to live in safety, prosperity and peace, so true. We will rise above the lies, the smears, the ludicrous slanders from ludicrous and very, very dishonest reporters.We will vote for the country we want; we will vote for the future we want; we will vote for the politics we want; and we will vote to put this corrupt government cartel out of business and out of business immediately.We will vote for the special interests and say lots of luck but, you're being voted out of power. They've betrayed our workers, they've betrayed our borders and, most of all, they've betrayed our freedoms. We will save our sovereign rights as a nation. We will end the politics of profit; we will end the rule of special interests; we will end the raiding of our jobs by other countries; we will end the total disenfranchisement of the American voter and the American worker. Our Independence Day is at hand, and it arrives finally on November 8th.God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.There's a lot of people.Love it.Very, very special place to be.Thank you, everybody. Wow, what a turn out this is. This is big stuff.And a poll just came out, Wall Street Journal, NBC we're leading Ohio by one or two points, but we're gonna win Ohio.We are going to win Ohio.Thank you, everybody.I gave a speech earlier today on the lies, corruption and false accusations of the Crooked Hillary Clinton campaign.And the main stream media, which they control and use quite viciously. They want to distract us from WikiLeaks -- it's been amazing what's coming out on WikiLeaks.They want to keep us from talking about the issues. We will not let that happen, we're going to talk about the real issues which is jobs and illegal immigration, and our depleted military, and taking care of our vets...... and our Second Amendment and our Supreme Court judges...... and the repeal and replacement of Obamacare -- don't forget that.Which is a disaster.Every day between now and the election, we're going to talk about our plans to make America great again.In 26 days, we're going to defeat the corrupt establishment and we are going to save the United States of America. We are going to save the United States.And we are going to show the whole entire beautiful world how much we love our country.It's going to be again America First. It's been a long time. America First.And you've got 7,000 people outside trying to get in but they're not going to make it, I guess.We're going to renegotiate our absolutely terrible trade deals, reduce surging crime, cut taxes and regulation, lift the restrictions on American energy, end Common Core...... reduce the cost of college, make childcare more affordable and repeal and replace that horrible thing, the so-called Affordable Care Act, Obamacare, which is not affordable at all.And the governor of Minnesota, just minutes ago announced that the Affordable Care Act is not affordable. And Bill Clinton admitted the other day that it's a crazy system, and I've been saying this for years and Bill Clinton suffered last week. He made that statement and he actually told the truth. He had a rough evening, I want to tell you that.And every time I see him lately, he's campaigning for Crooked Hillary. He shouldn't be campaigning. He ought to be working on the border; he ought to be working on illegal immigration; he ought to be working on bringing our jobs back from Mexico and all of these places that have taken our jobs.He is a disaster. Very importantly, we're going to get our economy growing again, and growing fast.My economic agenda can be send -- and you know this, and I think you've heard this -- We want an agenda that really is represented by what three words? Jobs, jobs, jobs and people aren't going to take our jobs, and countries are no longer going to be taking our jobs. There will be consequences, there will be a price to pay.And one of the hardest hit has been the state of Ohio. Manufacturing jobs, your steel jobs, your miners are going to be protected, your miners are going back to work. That I can tell you.This election is a simple choice. It's a choice between putting our faith in failed politicians and she is a failed politician. Look at what she's done. Everything she touches -- I'm going to be very nice -- turns bad.See, I've learned. Or putting our faith in you the American people, which is what we're going to do. This is a great movement that we've created together. A movement like has never been seen in this country. A movement like they've never, ever seen in this country.Never, ever seen anything like this.And we're going to have a tremendous victory. I think far greater than some people are even predicting. Because we're tired of corruption and we're tired or incompetence. And that's what you get, nobody wants four more years of Obama. And with Hillary Clinton it will even be worse.The Hillary Clinton documents released by WikiLeaks just a little while ago. Make it more clear than ever just how much is at stake on November 8th. The corruption of the Clintons knows no limits and we've known that for a long time. Today WikiLeaks released new emails from early 2015 from Clinton campaign staffers discussing how friendly Hillary was with Attorney General Loretta Lynch, I'm shocked to hear that.This was only months prior to the investigation of her illegal server. And the email server that gave foreign governments access to our confidential information. Think of this, this comes on the heels of the disclosure -- and you saw this disclosure -- said Clinton campaign was colluding with the State Department over the release of her emails, and revelations that the Clinton campaign was colluding with Obama's Department of Justice, over the investigation into Hillary's secret server.There is never been anything like what's happening in our country. We've never had a thing like this before, and it's a disgrace and they ought to be ashamed of themselves. And like I took Hillary and told Hillary the other day, at the debate -- which we did win quite easily I will say.Look, she's highly overrated, believe me. You know she couldn't pass her bar exam in Washington, D.C. Couldn't pass it. She failed. She's an overrated person.How about during the debate? I'm standing there at my lectern, not moving, and she walks in front of me. Right? She walks in front of me, and she answers the question then she walks right back, right in front of me, and the next day I read in the newspapers, that I invaded her space. Do you believe this? Me?But, we have another debate coming up and we'll do the same to her.Yesterday new disclosures were made showing again how Hillary Clinton's pay for play works. In 2010, Saudi Arabia was looking to buy arms from the United States. In order to get the approval, Clinton's State Department had to sign off and they couldn't get it. So what happened? What did Saudi Arabia do? They paid Bill Clinton a fortune to do a speech. Later that year, Clinton's State Department signed off on arm deals between the United States and Saudi Arabia, shocking, shocking.Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails, after, not before -- before would be bad -- after is criminal, it's criminal. After a Congressional subpoena then made 13 iPhones disappear some with a hammer. Has anybody used a hammer on their iPhone?He did. What business are you in? I don't want to ask. I don't want to know.She did that to cover up her crimes. The WikiLeaks documents show how the media conspires and collaborates with Clinton campaign, including giving the questions and answers to Hillary Clinton before a debate.I don't get them, I want them. I'm angry at the Republicans, they don't get me the answers and the questions. The documents show how the DNC honestly betrayed Bernie Sanders. Poor Bernie, he sold out. If he wouldn't have sold out to the devil, he would have gone down in political history as quite an important man, but he sold out and his people are not happy. And now with all of these emails that they're finding and all of these documents, it's not a pretty picture for Bernie. Looks bad -- looks bad. They really did rig the system on Bernie Sanders, I'll tell you, they rigged the system.The documents also show the Clinton campaign says she has no core. She has no message. What are we going to do? She's got no message. I have a message. You know what the message is? Make American great again.It's a good message, and that's what we're doing this for. I didn't need this folks, believe me. I built a great company, I was having a lot of fun, this isn't fun. You know, many of the people, although I must say, sort of is fun. But, many of the people in this room were making more money 18 years ago than they are now and they're working harder now. And in many cases, you have two jobs. So, you're working harder, you're older, and you're making less. But, I'm older and I'm working harder also. So, I don't feel bad for anybody in the room.We're all in the same boat. But, it's going to pay off because we're going to turn our country around.We're going to turn our country around.I would think he probably talked about appointing her as the Attorney General if Hillary wins this election, and you're not allowed to do that. And they were very embarrassed. And they thought it would be something where they could sneak on and sneak off. And I've had a plane for a long time, I've never had anybody stop it, get on, come off, on the tarmac. Doesn't happen. And then you have the Director of the FBI and some of the greatest people in the world...... some of the greatest people of -- really in our country. Some of the great people are in the FBI and based on what I read and see and hear, they are so angry at what took place. Where they caught her cold. She is a corrupt person. She should not be allowed to run for the presidency. She's a corrupt person.She should be locked up. She should.And if I win, I am going to ask my Attorney General to appoint a special prosecutor to look into her crimes, because what she did is a disgrace to the United States of America.And we're also going to look in to the investigation. In other words, we're going to investigate the investigation, because what happened is a disgrace. Other people, their lives have been destroyed for doing so much less and everybody knows it. You know when you delete something or when you don't provide the documents requested, after -- after you get a subpoena from the United States Congress. That's a criminal act. That alone -- forget about all of the other things which are even worse in many ways, but that alone is a criminal act.And now as you heard last week, two boxes of information and emails are missing, as of last week. What are we doing folks? What are we doing? What are we living with? What are we living with?This will finally be the year where the American people can say enough is enough.The Clintons are the past but, we are going to be together a very bright future.The new emails also show members of the Clinton team, viciously attacking Catholics and evangelicals.True.It's just the latest evidence of the hatred that the Clinton campaign has for faithful people in our country. Faithful Americans. Hillary Clinton thinks you're deplorable and irredeemable -- and irredeemable might be worse, it means you can't help yourself. I call you hard working American patriots, and together we are going to save our country with the smartest, with the best. We're going to unify our country.These emails also reveal that Clinton believes in global governance, and unlimited immigration into our country.Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said, my dream is a hemispheric common market. There go your jobs, the rest of your jobs. With open trade and open borders, OK? She didn't want to hear that, she didn't want that to get out. Behind closed doors, when she thought no one was listening, she pledged to dissolve the borders of the United States of America. It's what's happening folks, that's what happening.We are going to have strong borders. We are going to have a great wall.And who is going to pay for that wall?100 percent. They don't know it yet, but that doesn't matter. No, the Mexico's fine. I was there two months ago, I met with the President of Mexico, very good person. And you know what, we're going to have a great relationship with Mexico. But, right now, their leaders are to smart for our leaders. We have massive trade deficits with Mexico. They beat us at the border, they beat us with trade. We have massive trade deficits with China. They make our products and other countries. We don't make things anymore, essentially. But, we're going to start making things again. We're going to start making things again.We're going to make them in Ohio, believe me. We're going to make them in Ohio.Hillary wants to end forever the American independence that our soldiers fought and died for to keep and protect us. Either we win this election or we lose our country, and that's what's happening. That's your choice, it's as simple as that. A Trump administration will secure and defend our borders.Hillary is so radical on immigration as Secretary of State, she refused to make foreign countries take back their criminal aliens. I don't know if you know what's gone on. They would catch a murderer; they would catch a drug lord; they would catch some bad people, top gang members. They'd bring them back into their countries, the countries which say, very intelligently, we don't want them. So, we'd bring them back, she would put no pressure on those countries. We'd bring them back and in many cases we just put them right back on our streets, where they reeked havoc. reeked havoc.I will get them over there and they're not coming back, I promise you that. Promise you that -- promise you that.One such killer who was set free on Hillary's watch went on to kill a young American girl named Casey Chadwick. The killer who had already been convicted for shooting a girl in the head, should have been sent home and should have never been here in the first place. Instead, he was set free, went on a rampage and murdered Casey. Hillary Clinton should be ashamed, she should be ashamed.She also wants to increase Syrian refugees coming in to our country by 550 percent.This -- even though, she admitted in private according to WikiLeaks, just the other day. That she knows terrorists are trying to infiltrate the refugee program which they absolutely are.Hillary support for open borders with the Middle East, will give us the same problems as France. All you have to do is look on and see what's happening with Germany and so many other countries. With the multi-generational terrorism embedded in our communities all over -- all over the world, and all over our country. So, let me state this as clearly and as nicely as I can. I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.At the same time, we're going to completely rebuild our very depleted military. That includes building a state of the art missile defense system which we need, it's time.When it comes to keeping America safe, I believe in three very important words and we don't have it now. it's called peace through strength.But, to be a strong country we must also be a rich country. Sounds crass, but we've got to be a rich country. Right now we're a poor country, we're a deader nation. At the center of our economic revival, we'll be fixing our terrible, horrible, incompetently negotiated trade deals.In our country, 47 million Americans are in poverty and 45 million Americans are on food stamps, amazing right? In this day and age. This is the legacy of President Obama and Hillary Clinton. No state has been hurt worse by our trade deals than the state of Ohio. I'm going to bring back your jobs. You're going to have big expansion of your existing companies. And no more companies are going to leave the state of Ohio without there being serious economic consequence for that company.The state of Ohio has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton and supported heavily by Hillary Clinton. Hillary's South Korea deal also cost the United States another 100,000 jobs. And do you remember when Hillary Clinton ran for the Senate in New York? She said she was going to bring back 200,000 jobs to upstate New York, guess what? More and more and more companies left, they went to Mexico and other places. She did nothing but talk and that's all she's doing now when she runs for President. She doesn't have the strength, she doesn't have the aptitude, she doesn't have what it takes if we're going to be a great country again. That I can tell you 100 percent.And you know, when she's over in China. If she goes down in Tiananmen Square, they'll just leave her there, they're tough people. There's just going to leave her there. They're not going to help her up. They'll say let her come up when she's ready, these are tough people. Since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed deal. Now listen to this, 70,000 factories, I thought they meant 500,700,7,000, 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States of America. 70,000.That's 15 factories closing a day on average in our country, going to other places. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world and it comes from our country and goes to many others. In particular, China, Mexico, Japan, but plenty of others. Companies like Carrier, General Electric, Motorola, Mattel, Fiat, Chrysler and so many others are moving their jobs to Mexico. And now, Ford just announced, it's moving all of its small car production to Mexico also, not good -- not good.And I will tell you this, if I win, when Ford, when Carrier, when these companies announce that they want to leave, fire all of their American workers, and go to Mexico. And in the case of Ford, build a $2 million plant. I will tell you what's going to happen. We will tell them congratulations, enjoy your new plant. But, every time you make an air conditioning unit, or a small car, or a big car, or a big truck and you want to send it into the United States. You're going to have a 35 percent tax to pay at our now strong border.And they'll never move folks, they'll never move. And if they do move, that's OK too because we're going to make a fortune.If I win, day one, we're going to announce our plans to totally renegotiate the worst trade deal ever made, NAFTA.If we don't get what we want in that renegotiation, we will leave NAFTA and start over and get ultimately a much, much better trade deal.Just like some people didn't honor the pledge to Donald Trump when we all ran for the Republican nomination. There were a few people that did not honor the pledge.I would have honored my pledge. But, some people lost so badly, they'll never forget it. So, I guess they couldn't handle it. We are going to start making things again in America. We are going to have Apple and many companies like Apple, start making their iPhones and their products in the United States not in Vietnam and China and every place but here.As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we're going to lower our business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent. Right now we're the highest in the world, we're going to be one of the lowest.Forty-five percent of African-American youth live in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth don't have jobs. More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1st, a very short period of time. It's like a war zone. To those African- Americans suffering in our country, where in the inner cities, you have no jobs, horrible education. And you often times get shot just walking down the street to buy a loaf of bread. I say this, what the hell do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump, I will fix it -- I will fix it.They've been run by these Democrats like Hillary for over 100 years in some cases unbroken. I will fight harder for you than anyone has ever fought before. Nobody will fight like I'm going to fight for you.But, I'm also going to fight to help millions of Hispanics who are trapped in poverty also. That includes school choice, so important. For every low income African-American and Hispanic child in this nation, disadvantaged children will be able to attend the public/private charter or magnet school of their choice. Here are some of the more amazing things we are going to do for our country, starting in 2017. Won't this be nice? You've got to get out and vote -- you've got to get out and vote. Ohio's so important. We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.We're going to protect our internet system. We're going to defend religious liberty.Protect free speech on college campuses. Rebuild our depleted military and take care of our great veterans that we love and cherish.Repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare. We're going to save our Second Amendment folks. We're going to save it.The National Rifle Association, NRA gave me the earliest endorsement in their history. We've got to save our Second Amendment. Because they are doing numbers to your Second Amendment that are not good and are very unfair and are not what our founders had in mind. So, think about your Second Amendment, so important. We're going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.You have 26 days to make every dream you've ever dreamed for your country and for your children and for your grandchildren to come true. I honestly believe this is the last chance we'll ever get -- not going to happen again. This is a movement like they have never, ever seen before. The media, the press is going absolutely crazy. They don't know what to do -- they don't know what to do.They don't know what to do. You look at this place, they don't know what to do. On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington, D.C. will come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter and the American worker.We are going to replace our failed and incompetent leadership in Washington, that has betrayed you, squandered your wealth and sold out our country and our jobs.It's time for us to embrace the greatness of our country and the greatness of our future.I'm asking all Americans, Republicans, Independents and even Democrats to join us in our campaign and that's what's happening folks. You look at it and you see. You have all over the yards, all over Ohio and lots of other states. Trump signs, Trump-Pence, Trump- Pence, and by the way, Mike Pence, great guy, great job, a great pick.We're going to give our government back to the American people.I am going to fight for every citizen of every background, from every stretch of this nation. And I am going to fight to bring us all together. We are a divided country right now. All together as Americans, we're going to love each other.We are not going to be divided for much longer. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.You are going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. And by the way, is there any place better to be anywhere in the world or safer to be than a Trump rally. We love each other.You're going to remember this evening. This is a movement like has never been seen in this country before. We're going to make history together. You're going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote that you've ever cast, for anyone, at anytime. Because that is when our country started turning around and being great again.A vote for me is a vote for you and it's a vote for change which we need, change, change.Once again we are going to have a government of, by and for the people. We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you. God bless you. God bless you.Thank you, thank you. Great, wow. Thank you very much. Thank you, wow. Thank you, wow.Thank you, everybody.Nice place, plenty of room.In 25 days we're going to win the state of North Carolina, which I love, and we're going to win the White House.Early voting starts on October 20th, so you have to get out there. But November 8th, that's our day. November 8th, right? November 8th.But do the early voting.I'd also like to take this moment to send our thoughts and prayers to everyone recovering in the tragic aftermath of Hurricane Matthew. We know about it very well unfortunately right here. We send our deepest condolences for those who have lost loved ones. We are with you and we will always be with you and help you when needed. So, good luck to everybody.The incredible spirit of the people of this state will power its recovery, and it's the same spirit that will rebuild our nation. I have property in this state, this is a great state.You know my property. Beautiful properly, great employees. In the Trump administration we will end decades of policies that enrich special interests and foreign countries at our expense. We're going to take on the big media, big business, and big donors that are bleeding our country dry. We're losing our jobs.We're going to renegotiate our disastrous trade deals and illegal immigration. Stop the massive inflow of refugees. Take care of our vets, our great vets. And we're going to repeal and replace Obamacare, 100 percent. That is a disaster. Premiums are soaring double digits in North Carolina, beyond anybody's wildest expectations. It's a disaster and you're -- and you know what's going on. Your country will be left with only one insurer. You're going to have nothing, everyone's leaving. And you have one insurer. You're going to have nobody. Obamacare if failing, we're going to repeal it and we're going to replace it.Your jobs come back under a Trump administration. Your income goes up under a Trump administration.Your taxes go way down under a Trump administration.You companies won't be leaving our country under a Trump administration, they'll be staying right here. And believe me, there are plenty of them right now negotiating to leave, I hate to tell you that.These are the issues that we'll discuss at the next debate, which I look very much forward to.Crooked Hillary is doing no more public events until after the debate. They say she's doing debate prep but, really she's just resting, she's resting.For what -- for what she's done, they should lock her up, they should. It's disgraceful. Honestly, it's disgraceful. What's going on in our country right now is a disgrace. The Hillary Clinton documents released by WikiLeaks make more clear than ever just how much is at stake on November the 8th. WikiLeaks released new Clinton campaign emails revealing how friendly Hillary was with the attorney general, Loretta Lynch.This was only months prior to Lynch's investigation of Hillary's illegal secret email server that gave foreign governments access to our confidential information. This comes on the heels of disclosure that Clinton campaign was conspiring and colluding with the State Department and Justice Department over the release of her emails and the investigation into her server.Hillary Clinton told the FBI 39 times she couldn't remember anything. I couldn't remember, I couldn't remember. Or recall key events concerning illegal server and related misconduct.Now, in new written testimony, just out as part Freedom of Information Act request, Hillary Clinton said she couldn't remember, recall, or anything else, key events and key things 21 different times.It's one more reason that if I win I will ask my Attorney General to appoint a special prosecutor.And we also have to investigate the investigation itself.Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after a congressional subpoena. She got a subpoena from Congress and she said, this is no good, this is terrible, because those 33,000 emails had bad stuff. And she said get rid of them, delete them, bleach them.Nobody bleaches because that's an expensive process. She bleached. Get rid of them. And then she made everybody get rid of iPhones, her iPhones, and some of them were hammered. They were hammered to death. All to cover up her crimes. Yesterday new disclosures were made showing again how Hillary Clinton's pay for play works.Saudi Arabia paid Bill Clinton a lot of money to make a speech and then got an arms deal from Hillary and her State department that they were unable to get. The nation of Qatar also kicked in $1 million for Bill Clinton's birthday party, so nice. But, as WikiLeaks showed the Clinton's ripped off the people of Haiti as they were suffering and dying after the earthquake.And her brother's on the board of a gold mine, her brother. But, the media's covering up for the Clintons and their many crimes against so many people. The WikiLeaks documents show how the media conspires and collaborates with the Clinton campaign including giving the questions and answers to Hillary Clinton before the debate, OK.What a rigged system folks. Last night, we had a massive crowd of over 20,000 people in Cincinnati, filled up an arena.And the media won't even talk about the size of the crowd, the enthusiasm of the crowd. I watched NBC this morning, they said, last night Donald Trump was in Cincinnati.If Hillary Clinton has 800 people, the crowd is so big.It is horrible -- it is really horrible. The corrupt media is trying to do everything in their power to stop our movement. Believe me, they don't want this happening. We have one of the great movements -- we have the great movement. We have a movement that's never happened before.And no paper is more corrupt than the failing New York Times. The good news is it is failing, it won't be around too much longer. But they are really, really bad people. The largest shareholder in the Times is Carlos Slim. Now Carlos Slim, as you know, comes from Mexico. He's given many millions of dollars to the Clintons and their initiatives. So Carlos Slim, largest owner of the paper, from Mexico.Reporters at the New York Times, they're not journalists, they're corporate lobbyists for Carlos Slim and for Hillary Clinton. We're going to let foreign corporations and their CEO's decide the outcomes of the -- you just can't do this.We can't let this happen. We are not going to let it happen where they decide the outcome of our elections. They can't do it and we're not going to let it happen. This is our last chance to save our country and reclaim it for we the people, and it's going to happen.Oh, it's going to happen. As you have seen, right now I am being viciously attacked with lies and smears.It's a phony deal. I have no idea who these women are, have no idea. I have no idea. And I think you all know I have no idea because you understand me for a lot of years, OK?When you looked at that horrible woman last night, you said I don't think so. I don't think so.Whoever she is, wherever she comes from, the stories are total fiction. They're 100 percent made up, they never happened, they never would happen. I don't think they'd happen with very many people but they certainly aren't going to happen with me. Folks, you know my people always say, oh don't talk about it, talk about jobs, talk about the economy. Don't worry, your jobs are going to be coming back to North Carolina like you've seen, the economy's going to be good.But I feel I have to talk about them because you have to dispute when somebody says something. And fortunately we have the microphone, we're able to dispute, some people can't. These are lies being pushed by the media and the Clinton campaign to try and keep their grip on our country. They are all false, they're totally invented, fiction. All 100 percent totally and completely fabricated. Never met this person, these people, I don't know who they are.I don't know who they -- think of what's happening to our country. Think of what's happening. I don't know who these people are, I look on television, I think it's a disgusting thing and it's being pushed. They have no witnesses, there's nobody around. They just come out. Some are doing it for probably a little fame, they get some free fame. It's a total setup. Now suddenly after many, many years, phony accusers come out less than a month before one of the most important elections in the history of our country.It also comes at a time as WikiLeaks unveils horrible, horrible things about Hillary Clinton.But they'd rather talk about this. Somebody that you've never seen that said, oh, 1992 he went like this.One came out recently where I was sitting alone in some club. I really don't sit alone that much. Honestly, folks I don't think I sit alone. I go in with groups of people -- I was sitting alone by myself, like this.And then I went whaw.To somebody. I just heard this one. It's like, it's like unbelievable. Even a simple investigation would've shown these allegations against me, in just about all cases, it's nonsense, it's false. And eyewitnesses already debunked to a People Magazine story.Here's my question about the dishonest writer from People Magazine. Why didn't she write what she said happened before we wrote the story, why didn't she put it in the story? The story would've been one of the big stories.I was the big star of the Apprentice, why didn't she go it 12 years ago? Twelve years ago. She's writing a story -- no think of this. Think of this. She's right, she's a liar. She is a liar. She's writing a story -- check our her Facebook page, you'll understand. Hey, she's writing a story about a beautiful love story, Melania, Donald, and she said I made inappropriate move.Now, just so you understand. That's a big story. If I did. She wrote the most beautiful story, honestly the most beautiful story, 100 percent story, like beautiful. Why wouldn't she have put this into the story?Now, two nights ago I get a call. Oh, People Magazine's doing a story. It's OK. No, no, it's not OK, it's about a story that was written 12 years ago. She was on last night, or one of the top people that People was on, and he said, no, we were just informed of it.Well, did you hear about it 12 years ago? Did you hear about five years? No, no, we never -- we just heard about it recently. These people are sick. These people are sick. And the reason she didn't write it 12 years ago is very simple. It never happened, it never happened. It's a lie.It's a lie. And let me tell you, if it did happen, if it did happen, it -- 100 percent she would have written it, it would have been the biggest story of the year, OK? These are all horrible lies, all fabrications and we can't let them change the most important election in our lifetimes. If five percent of the people think it's true and maybe 10 percent think -- we don't win. In other words, they make lies. They have people come around, oh Donald Trump did this or that. I never saw these people before, I don't know who they are.And then you watch these phony networks, and dishonest networks, who are 100 percent -- let me tell you something about Hillary Clinton. She's got nothing going, she's got nothing. The only thing she's got going is the media. She's got nothing going. She's got nothing. The other day at the debate, where by the way, I absolutely destroyed her, OK?Every online poll, even Time Magazine, Time Magazine is not exactly in love with me but every online poll had us skill -- she said, the other day I'm standing, I told you this. But I'm standing at my podium and she walks in front of me, right? She walks in front of me, you know?And when she walked in front of me, believe me I wasn't impressed. But she walks in front of me and she takes a question, then she walked back, and that was the end of that, no problem. Then she said the next day, I invaded her space. Give me a break. And I was waiting for that because she had that incident once before where they made up something. Some guy invaded her space, the poor guy lost the election because of it. But I was very conscious of this so I purposely, I purposely didn't do anything. So -- get this guy out of here. Get him out of here, out.Get out of here.It's really total disrespect for the American flag. There he is. Look, good. Great. Folks -- folks, that's what's happening to our country, that's what's happening. That is total disrespect for our flag, that's what's happening to our country. We're going to turn it around, folks -- we're going to turn it around.It's a lie, total lie, it's fabrication. Sometimes they do it for fame, maybe they get money, who knows? The Clinton campaign is pushing it.The New York Times did a story on somebody where it was totally false. They knew it was totally false. We gave them the information, they wrote a whole big page about somebody where they were sending me emails, and letters, and everything, and then you realize -- it was a one-way send, by the way, there was nothing sent back -- and you realize it was a totally phony deal. They did a whole big story on it.They didn't mention all of the emails, they didn't mention everything coming my way. And others looked at it and, as bad as it was, soon as they saw this stuff that was said, they immediately -- immediately decided not to do this. The New York Times did a story on it.They read these stories and people might not know how untrue they are. It's really a disgrace. I've been saying this for a long time. The whole thing we've been going through, and I hate to say it but, the whole thing we're going through -- Bernie Sanders was a rigged deal -- the whole thing is one big fix, it's one big fix.It's one big ugly lie, it's one big fix. The press can't write the kind of things they write, which are lies, lies, lies. The stories are fabrications and false. And the only thing I say is hopefully, hopefully, our patriotic movement will overcome this terrible deception.Hopefully, our great movement -- and there's never been anything like this in the United States. And the only way they figure they can throw it down is to come up with people that are willing to say, I was with Donald Trump in 1980. I was sitting with him on an airplane, and he went after me on the plane. Yeah, I'm going to go after.Believe me, she would not be my first choice, that I can tell you. Man.You don't know, that would not be my first choice. Hopefully our great movement powered by everyday citizens will overcome the sickness that is plaguing our politics and our media. And I'll tell you what, our media is indeed sick and its making our country sick, and we're going to stop it.We're going to stop it folks. All right, let's get on now, let's get onto another subject. But isn't it good that we talk about this? Right? Who thinks I shouldn't talk, we're talk jocks, right? Who thinks that I shouldn't talk about it? Does anybody think that? OK, I agree.When somebody, you know, a long time ago -- when you get hit, you hit back, you've got to do it. You don't just say "I didn't get hit, oh I didn't get hit." When you get hit, we are destroying our country with these sick people back there, and they know it better than anybody in this arena.I ran because I knew what trouble our country was in. The country is in tremendous trouble, you know this. You know this in North Carolina, because you see what's happening to your jobs, they're disappearing.I know it's not about me, it's about you, and that's why I'm doing this. I didn't need to do this, but it's about you. It's about bringing our country, making our country great again. I'm taking these slings and arrows for you, so we can have our borders, so we can get back our jobs...... so we can be a safe nation again. You know, the murder -- the number of murders in our country this year, went up more than they have in 45 years.It's true. Look, Obama is an incompetent. He is an incompetent president.He doesn't know what he's doing, he's out campaigning all day long, he talking about me like he knows me. I don't know him, he doesn't know me.And why doesn't some woman maybe come up and say what they say falsely about me, they could say about him. They could say it about anybody, they could say it about anybody. I'll tell you what, he better be careful, because they could say it about anybody, anybody at all.But Obama is in incompetent, as a president, he's about as bad as it gets. Look at what's happening, how Iran is taunting us. Look at what's going on, look at the world.He gives away $400 million in cash, but it turns out to $1.7 billion in cash. Gives them $150 billion...This guys doesn't know what he's doing, it's an embarrassment. If you look at the Middle East, it's a blow up, it's a total disaster. We have an incompetent president. I hate to say it, but it 100 percent true.And all he's doing, instead of working on your jobs and your companies leaving for Mexico and other places, he's campaigning for Crooked Hillary. That's all he does.Either we win this election or we're going to lose our country, because 4 more years of Obama, you can't take it.WikiLeaks documents, Hillary Clinton speaking in secret -- oh man, you saw those too, a secret Brazilian bank. Hillary Clinton said "my dream is a hemisphere common market with open trade and open borders." There go the rest of your jobs --There go -- even though she doesn't say that, but that's what she said in a very, very secret meeting. The emails show that behind closed doors speaking to these international bankers, Hillary Clinton's pledged to destroy the sovereignty of the United States.And yes, we will build a wall.Crooked Hillary also wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees to pour into our country.They're covering somebody that I never saw before, that she knows terrorists are trying to infiltrate the refugee program. So you have terrorists coming in, she knows they're coming in, and yet she wants to increase it.And our country will never be the same. So let me state this as clearly as I can. I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.At the same time, we're going to take care of our military and we're going to take care of our great, great, great veterans.They've been treated very badly.That includes -- veterans' choice so veterans can either attend a public V.A. facility or if they have to wait online like they've been doing, sometimes for as much as seven days and then still not get proper care, they'll go to a private medical center or they'll go to a private or public or something, they will go outside...... they'll go to a private doctor, they'll go to a private hospital, they'll go to a public hospital. We're going to get them care and we're going to pay for their -- that care.They're not going to wait online. For seven days and die sometimes waiting online for a simple, simple procedure or prescription. It's not going to happen like that any longer for our veterans, OK? Not going to happen.And Hillary Clinton said, no, no, the V.A. is doing a good job, OK?North Carolina is home to more than 100,000 active-duty military personnel and almost 800,00 veterans.The military supports over half a million jobs in this state. We are going to repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and we are going to rebuild the military of the United States which is very, sadly, depleted.When it comes to keeping America safe, I believe in a three and -- I think you believe in these words, I think -- three very important words, peace through strength, right. Peace through strength.And we don't want to use our strength, but you have to have our strength. And the world is laughing at us. They're laughing at the stupidity of our President. Remember he drew the line in the sand -- the line is in the sand. Remember Hillary the last debate? I wasn't Secretary of State then.She doesn't even know. It turned out she lied. Remember she said TPP was gold standard, she said she never said that during the debate. She lied about that. She's a liar.But to be a strong country, we must also be a very rich country. At the center of our economic revival we'll be fixing our really horrendous, one-way street, horrible trade deals.We're going to fix them folks. You know, last year we lost almost $800 billion in trade deficits. We have trade deficit with other nations of almost $800 billion. And I have some friends in the audience, I guarantee I can take any one of those friends -- one in particular who happens to be brutal but that's OK, lives in North Carolina, so you know, one of those things, right, but a great business person.I put him in charge -- this case him -- we would have such a good thing. And there are people like that. We have the greatest negotiators in the world, we have the greatest business people in the world, we don't use them. We use political hacks. So we have a trade deficit of almost $800 billion.Sad, isn't it? Isn't it pathetic? North Carolina's industrial workers have been crushed by Bill Clinton's signing of NAFTA supported by Crooked Hillary. Don't forget, a lot of people want that to happen because they make a lot of money by taking money out of this country. Those deals are very good for a lot of people.A lot of people know -- everybody knows that NAFTA is no good for the United States, but it's good for their wallets in some cases. You've lost nearly half of your manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, did you know that? You've lost almost half of your manufacturing jobs.This region used to be the furniture manufacturing hub of the world. I know because I bought plenty. But the NAFTA deal and then China's entry into the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster, have sent those jobs to other countries. You know better than anybody.I used to be here a lot for furniture, gets smaller and smaller every year. Not going to have anything left pretty soon. We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Our jobs have been stolen from us and we have people that don't know what they are doing, in particular our leadership.If I win, day one, we are going to announce our plans to renegotiate NAFTA.If we don't get the deal we want, we leave NAFTA and start over to get a much better, a much more fair deal because right now, we're a one-way highway into Mexico, a one-way highwayI mean, you take a look at this, it's one way. They get the jobs, they get the factories, they get the cash, and all we get -- we get illegal immigration and we get drugs. And the drugs are poisoning our youth, the drugs are poisoning our youth and others. But we're getting the drugs and we're getting lots of problems. And I'll tell you, I was endorsed by the, as you know, by ICE just last week, and by the border patrol agents.Sixteen thousand five hundred Border Patrol. They've never -- they've never done this before. They've never done -- they've never endorsed a presidential candidate. Both groups endorsed me. Because we're going to have strong borders. And we're going to have people come into our country, but they're going to come in legally, legally.And we're going to stand up to China, we're going to stop their currency manipulation and product dumping, which is killing us. And they don't follow the rules and, if they don't, we're going to institute tariffs. When they send something into our country -- and, believe me, they're going to obey our rules so quickly, you have no idea. And we'll end up with a better relationship with China than we do now.Look what they're doing, they're building a massive fortress against everything. A massive fortress in the South China Sea. And yet they're ripping us off. Now, if they're going to rip us off, you wouldn't think they'd be building fortresses. They have no respect for our President -- which I can understand that -- they have no respect for Obama, they have no respect for our country, and they're getting away with murder.And we have the cards, we have the cards. We have all the cards. Because we're like the piggy bank that everybody keeps stealing from. But pretty soon we're not going to be piggy bank anymore. We're going to be the opposite of the piggy bank.We don't have -- we are $20 trillion, half of which came during the Obama years. And yet we didn't fix anything. Our roads are bad, our bridges are bad, our tunnels are bad, our schools are bad, our hospitals are bad. We're going to start making things again in America. As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we're going to lower our business tax from 35 percent to 15 tax, the biggest since Ronald Reagan.Wages will rise, jobs will return, and factories will come rushing, rushing back in to our country.We're also going to fix our inner cities. Forty-five percent of African-American children are -- under the age six -- are living in poverty. Think of it, 45 percent. Fifty-eight percent of African- American youth don't have jobs.More than 3,000 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year. Three thousand people since January, three thousand. It's like a war zone. Violent crime in Greensboro increased by 25 percent last year. Did you know that? Twenty-five percent.To those African-Americans suffering in our country, I say, what do you have to lose? Vote for Trump, I'm going to fix it. What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? What do you have to lose?I will fight harder for you than anyone has fought for you before. Here are some of the more amazing things we're going to do when we take over, hopefully, this incredible country and run it properly in 2017.We going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, we're going to eliminate job-killing regulations which are a disaster, we are going to defend religious liberty.We're going to end Common Core. Going to bring our education local.We're going to support the men and women of law enforcement, repeal and replace Obamacare.We are going to save our Second Amendment.We're going to appoint great justices to the United States Supreme Court to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.So you have 25 days to make every dream you ever dreamed of for your country come true. But to beat the system, you have to pound the pavement, get your friends and co-workers out, organize your neighbors and fight for the country you want.On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington, D.C. will come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter, it's time, all right?I am asking all Americans, Republicans, Independents and Democrats, to join us in our campaign to defeat the corrupt establishment and give our government back to the people. It's going to happen.I'm going to fight for every citizen of every background. Thank you.Thank you. So we're going to fight and we're going to fight for every stretch of this nation. And I'm going to fight to bring us all together, we're a divided nation. Very divided nation right now. We're going to be unified nation, a nation of love.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life, and we're having a good time. We're having a good time.You're going to remember this day. This is a movement like nobody's ever seen in this country before. Even our enemies admit that. We're going to make history together, you're going to look back at the election, on November 8th, and you're going to say it is the most important vote you've ever cast because that's when our country started working again. That's when our country ---- became safe again. That's when our country became strong again and rich again. And we will make America, just like your beautiful hat, we will make America great again. Thank you, thank you very much.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much everybody. Thank you everybody. God bless you, go out and vote November 8th.Boy, oh boy, oh boy.And we have a lot of other women for Trump right here, I'll tell you.Thank you. Thank you, everybody. The incredible spirit of the people of this state will power its recovery and the same spirit that will rebuild our nation. You know, that's happening right now. There's a movement going on the likes of which nobody has seen ever in this country. And we're going to bring it forth and we're going to be very happy and very proud of our country again. I will tell you that.We're going to renegotiate our very disastrous trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees.Take care of our incredible veterans who are not being taken care of properly.We're going to repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare quickly.Your jobs will come back under a Trump administration. So many have left. Your incomes will go up under a Trump administration.Your taxes will go way down. And Crooked Hillary is giving you a big tax increase. Your taxes will go way down under a Trump administration. Your companies won't be leaving our country under a Trump administration. There will be consequences.They're not going to be leaving so easy folks, not like the old days. The Hillary Clinton documents released by WikiLeaks make more clear than ever just how much is at stake come November 8th. Such an important day.Such an important day. Get out and vote, everybody. Get out and vote.In an email sent to John Podesta on August 17, 2014, Hillary wrote that the governments of Qatar and Saudi Arabia are quote, "providing clandestine, financial and logistical support to ISIL". Yet, in that same year, Bill and Hillary accepted a check from Saudi Arabia. So Hillary thinks that they are funding ISIS, but still takes their money. And you know their views on gays and you know their views on women. Takes a lot of money.I think she should give back the $25 million to $35 million she's taken from Saudi Arabia. And she should give it back fast.There's a lot of people in here.You're a big group. This is a big group.You know, I own an big development right down the road, Trump National, right on Lake Norman. Lake Norman. And we have an amazing -- it's an amazing success. We have amazing people there. Both the employees and the people living there and we love it.Thank you. Thank you.This is just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to Clinton corruption. Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after receiving, after. Remember the word after receiving, a congressional subpoena and then made 13 phones disappear.It's amazing what she's getting away with, right? It's amazing. But maybe that won't happen. She made 13 phones disappear. Some by beating them, beating them, beating with a hammer. Has anybody, when you got rid of your iPhone, knocked the hell out of it with a hammer?There's a person way, way in the back. We will find out what business that person's in.She did it to cover up her crimes. It's one more reason why we need a special prosecutor to look into Hillary Clinton.And we have to investigate the investigation. The investigation, nobody in this country has seen anything like it. This is our last chance to save our country and reclaim it for we the people. This is it. You don't have another chance. I really believe this is it.As you have seen, I am a victim of one of the great political smear campaigns in the history of our country.They are coming after me to try and destroy, what is considered by even them, the greatest movement in the history of our country. There's never been anything like this.Bill O'Reilly and others have said it's the single greatest political phenomena in his lifetime and others have said the same thing. The political establishment is trying to stop us because they know we are a threat to their totally corrupt control. It's true.No one is more corrupt than Crooked Hillary Clinton. Nobody.In fact, she's the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency of the United States of America.And her specialty, if you look over the years, has been character assassination and really personally just going after people. That's her specialty. She's been doing it her whole career. The only force strong enough to smash Clinton's corrupt criminal syndicate is you, the American voter. November 8th. November 8th.After many, many years, even many decades, without complaint, the media and the Clinton campaign have brought forward false allegations less than a month before the most important election in modern times.These allegations are 100 percent false. As everybody -- I think you know. I think you get it. I think you get it. They're made up. They never happened. When have you met tens of thousands of people, as I have. And I've met thousands and thousands and thousands of people, know them, know them well. It's not hard to find a small handful of people willing to make false smears for personal fame. Who knows? Maybe for financial reasons, political purposes or for the simple reason they want to stop our movement. They want to stop our campaign. Very simple.These claims defy reason, truth, logic, common sense. They're made without supporting witnesses. No witnesses. Hey, you know, 28 years ago, 10 years ago, 14 years ago, 12 years ago, not me. Believe me. Not me. Not me. You would be very impressed actually with my life in so many regards, including that regard. No. Not a single shred of evidence. Eyewitnesses have already debunked the wild and ludicrous allegations of a magazine article that appeared. And I'll tell you what, it was just incredible.It was People Magazine and the article appeared. And a statement was made. But if it were true, they would have put it in the article. They would have had to put it into the article. But they didn't do that, and they didn't do that for a simple reason; because it never happened, 12 years ago.Never complained, never talked to the bosses, never, all of a sudden two nights ago we get a call. And the call is from People Magazine. They didn't even want a quote. I think maybe what we should do, boycott that issue of People Magazine.So, that's the way it is. But I just want to tell you folks that it is a campaign that's amazing. And I'm not going to be talking about it much, because we want to talk about other things and we have to talk about other things. But if it affects five percent or two percent or 10 percent or it's all false stuff. It's all a concerted effort. And I think it's the only way they're going to stop us, the only way. And I don't think that's going to happen.Yes, you can get him out of here. Get them out. Get them out.Hey look, the great thing, the cameras turned.Look. The cameras turned. The cameras turned. Oh, that's wonderful. That's so good. It's the only way we get the cameras to turn.So folks, here's the story. We are going to bring jobs back to North Carolina.We are going to bring borders back to our country. And yes, we will build a wall.And Mexico will be paying for that wall.Great crowd, I'll tell you.This is a great crowd.But I want to talk about jobs because I know this part of the world, I told you I have property here. A lot of great employees, a lot of great people, a lot of friends. And your jobs are being taken pretty much like nobody else's jobs have been taken. And it's only going to get worse. And as you stand here tonight, some of your companies, your leaders in your companies, are negotiating with Mexico and other places. You know that.To move that company to Mexico. And during the primary system, I had a very, very interesting period of time because I got to know this country so well. We had 17 people running. I was given a small chance because they said he's not an experienced politician. And then week after week, one by one, right? Right? Boom. Boom. Boom. But I got to know the country and I got to see what's happening with our manufacturing.We don't make much anymore by comparison to what we used to do. We used to be amazing. We don't do what we used to do. And I had won New York State and I had gotten up to places in New York State, which I hadn't seen for a long time. Hillary Clinton represented New York State and she was a disaster. She was a disaster.She said she was going to bring jobs back, 200,000 jobs. Well, it was just the opposite; jobs fled. She lied to the people of New York State. It was a total catastrophe. And if you look at what's happened to New York now, you just take a look at what's happened to New York in terms of upstate and manufacturing, you go to the different places, Albany and Syracuse and Rome. I always say that's the real Rome. But unfortunately, they're having a lot of problems. And you'll see what happens.But I went -- I went, oh that's an oops. Somebody's hurt. Is there a doctor in the house please? Doctor in the house? We have to take care of our people, right? These are great people. Have to take care of our people.And we have to take care of our country because we don't want to be a divided country anymore. We're very divided and we're going to take care of our country. Some of these people got here nine hours and 10 hours ago, right? Right? Some of these people.So we can understand how there can be some problems.Are you doing OK over there? Look OK? We have tough people in this room, let me tell you. It's hot. It's hot.The other night, they said, Donald Trump was sweating. I was in a room that was 110 degrees. We had 17,000 people. And I'll tell you what, wasn't sweating too much for what we had. Good. We'll make sure everything's perfect here, all right? We'll make sure everything's perfect. You take your time. Our great police have just arrived.Do we love our police.Everything good? All right, I'm getting the hi sign. Good. Good, give that person a hand.You know, when they go down at a Trump rally, they leave and they always come back. It's an amazing thing. It's an amazing thing. All right? So we'll keep going. You let us know if there's any problem and I'll come down and help you myself. All right?So we went to Indiana, and in going to Indiana, I got to know the great Bobby Knight. That was a great endorsement, Coach Knight. You know that story he called, he said, "Mr. Trump this Coach Knight, I want you to run for president." I said, Coach, I haven't made up my mind. This was a couple of years ago. He said, "Well, if you do I'd like to endorse you. You just let me know." And we were winning state after state, after state.And all of a sudden, we hit Indiana. And that's where we were going to maybe not do as well. Remember that? They called it our watershed. And I said, you know Bobby Knight called, and a friend of mine said, you know, have you ever had any access to Bobby Knight, that would be great. I said, I just happened to. And I lifted up this huge pile of papers and I wrote his number down. I put it right there. And it was right there. It was like a miracle. It was from God, right? It was from God.And that says Jesus for Trump. You're right.And...And I said, you know what, let me do that. I called Bobby Knight. He said, "I'd love to be there." I want to tell you, that was a very, very strong performance that he put in and we put in. And then we went and run.But I really got to know our country, and I got to know it well. And I'm so proud of the people of this country. And one of the things I saw, and I say -- you take care of that person. Good. Thank you. Thank you, darling.She'll be back. You watch. She'll right back. But one of the things that happened is I saw what was going on so closely and so vividly with respect to jobs and how our jobs are being drained because of NAFTA. NAFTA is a disaster. It's a disaster signed by Bill Clinton.You're not going to believe the number; 70,000 -- 70,000 factories, manufacturing plants have closed since the signing of NAFTA. Who would believe this? Who would believe it? Seventy -- I thought they made a mistake. I thought it would be 700. I said, it can't be 70,000. Millions of jobs wasted, lost. Many people in this room are making less money now than they made 20 years ago, 18 years ago, 25 years ago in real wages. And they're working harder. So am I, so I don't feel so guilty about that.This is work. But not bad work. This is good work because we're getting to a position where if we can win North Carolina -- and we're leading in Ohio, you saw that.And we're doing great in Florida. Doing great.We are doing so good in Florida. By the way, these teleprompters haven't been working for the last 20 minutes.And I actually like my speech better without teleprompters.And this way, what I like about it, wait a minute. Let me see how these things...You know what, I like it better without the teleprompters.And I notice, every time I look up, they're trying, it's trying, it's straining. It's straining. Hey, get this thing out of here, will you? Get it out.I like it much better without the teleprompter. You know, it's very funny. I went through 17 professional politicians, top people, and I went without any teleprompters. Then all of a sudden they said, well now you're running in the election. You need teleprompters. And I like teleprompters. They're fine, but it's sort of cooler without it right?Now she's not -- look, look. She's not -- she's not going to campaign anymore until after because she's prepping for the debate. Now, the last time she prepped for a week also. And let's face it, you have to say, I really beat her easily. That was an easy...So here's the story. Here's the way I work, here's the way government works. So the teleprompter's a bummer. It doesn't work. That means the company doing the teleprompter is in the back. That means they didn't do a good job. So, I won't pay them. Right? I won't pay them.And tomorrow, I'll have a story in the newspaper, Donald Trump did not pay a contractor who put up the teleprompters. Well, why should I? They don't work.And -- oh, it's true. It's true.And they'll make me like a bad guy, like I'm a bad person. Right? You know, I don't pay -- I pay contractors on time. I am so good. We just built a hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue, the old Post Office. On time, under budget, I paid -- we had great contractors. Right? But when you have a bum contractor -- now, here's the thing. You have a bad contractor, don't pay or cut the price. You have a good contractor, get that money out fast.But the -- the country should do the same thing. They build roads. They build roads that cost much more than they're supposed to cost, right? They build roads that are crazy, where they're double and triple. They build buildings where they every see a 1,000 percent. There's a hospital being built in one of my favorites states. It's so out of control. It's like 1,000 percent. It's a V.A. hospital. A thousand percent cost overrun. I looked at it. I figured it was this massive -- it's not even a big deal. It's not even a big deal.Our country has to be able to do things on time, on budget. Has to be able to build on time, on budget. Has to be able to purchase its military equipment not for political reasons because some political guy owns the company, but because that's the equipment that our generals, our admirals and our soldiers and sailors want.Have to do it.And we're going to change our whole purchasing procedure. For instance, the purchase of drugs. The drug companies have a tremendously powerful lobby. We don't negotiate properly. We would save so much money with proper negotiation.And it is true about the military. If you are somebody that has less good stuff that they don't want as much as another company but you are a political power, you contribute to the senators and to the congressmen and to the people that make the decisions and you work with the admirals and you work with everybody, all of a sudden they're buying equipment that's not as good and they're spending more money doing it.We're not going to be doing that stuff anymore. Remember this, I'll have spent over $100 million of my money running for office. And some of these people said -- and they say it all the time. They said -- one in particular said, you don't realize what you've done. Never been done before. You don't realize. It doesn't matter whether or not you win or lose. It makes no difference, what you've done for political history.I said, let me tell you a little secret.If we don't win on November 8th, it will be the greatest waste of time, energy -- energy. You ever heard that word before energy? You ever heard the word low energy? He didn't sign -- you know, he signed that pledge. But a couple of those guys that signed the pledge, you know they signed the pledge because they wanted me to sign the pledge. And then when they lost, they never got beaten so badly in their lives, folks. But when they lost, they didn't honor the pledge that they signed. I was actually surprised.Only a few of them, only a few of them, most of them did. Many of them, Ben Carson and a lot of great people. A lot of great people.Mike Huckabee's been great. Chris Christie.We've had a lot of great support. We've had a lot of great -- especially from the real world. A couple of our leaders aren't -- you know, it's not working out for them so well.But I will tell you this, we are going to have -- we are going to have an amazing victory on November 8th. We're going to come back here and celebrate. But we're going to have an amazing victory because this is all about the people. This is now about the people. So, let me just tell you, I was talking about jobs. And when you get...I feel the same way. When you get -- when you get to the different places within our country and you see how our companies are being sucked out into Mexico and other places, here's what's going to happen. I go to Indiana and I see Carrier Air Conditioning; 1,400 people that followed me all over Indiana, so many of them. So much support. They were fired. They were there for some of them 25 years longer, they were fired. Carrier announced that they're moving to Mexico. They're going to build a brand new plant. And they're going to make air conditioners...And they're going to sell the air conditioners into our country and other places. And we are fools, so we're just going to say, oh go ahead. You fire all these people in Indianapolis. And you're going to do this. Not if I'm president. All right?Ford -- Ford announced two weeks ago that they're moving the production of their smaller cars -- that's a big production -- to Mexico from our country.And by the way, the reason we're doing well in Michigan and in Ohio is because they know that I've been talking about automobile production and I've been pointing out what's happening to automobile production and where's it's moving and I've been talking about it for five years. Crooked Hillary just started talking about it.And let me tell you, just like she failed in New York State with jobs, she's never bringing your businesses back, folks. She's never bringing your businesses back. And she's going to give you massive tax increases. Massive. And I'm cutting taxes massively.So, here's the story. For years and years, you've been hearing that companies are moving out. Who better than North Carolina to know exactly what happened, right? You people have lost a lot of businesses. Not going to happen anymore.So, whether it's Ford, whether it's Carrier, whether it's somebody else, we hear somebody's leaving, we're going to say, we hope you stay. And let's stay and let's talk. Nobody talks to these companies, by the way. Do you think anybody talked from the federal government to Carrier or to Ford? Or -- they just do whatever they want to do.True.So -- so what happened -- what happens is for years -- for years and years -- that's right. For years and years they've been talking about how do we keep our companies in North Carolina? How do we keep our countries in these different states? And they give interest-free loans and they give all sorts of goodies. That's -- they didn't need the money. They want to leave, they didn't need the money.So I've been talking for the last six months, I said, it's very simple. I mean, I do it before even -- before I said a sentence. What you do is you say the following. Carrier are you staying or are you leaving? Well, we're leaving. By the way, nobody's going to leave once you tell them what's happening. Nobody's leaving.So they're leaving because they're a little early. And you say to them though, assuming -- as an example, if I were made by a president, secretary of keeping businesses in the United States, OK?I'll be -- instead of secretary of State, secretary of keeping businesses -- not a very glamorous title, but boy would I be good at that.Because I would call up the head of Carrier, as an example, and I would say congratulations on your new plant in Mexico. Yes, I agree it's warm, but I hear it's going to be a lovely place. And if you move, and we don't want you to move, there are consequences. They'll say, what are the consequences?I'll say, every single time you make an air conditioning unit in Mexico and you think after firing all of these people in Indianapolis you're going to take that unit, have it come across the border with no tariffs, no taxes, you're 100 percent wrong. We're going to charge you...Now, here's what's going to happen. Number one, very strongly, nobody's going to leave. But if they do leave, you know, one percent, two percent, believe me nobody's leaving. If I'm that secretary, nobody's leaving. But if they do leave, we're going to make a fortune. So it's OK either way. Right? Ladies? Right?Because we cannot afford to continue to lose our companies. We're losing our companies. We're losing our jobs. We cannot afford to lose our jobs. We cannot afford to lose our manufacturing. So it's going to all come to an end. It's going to all come to an end. We are going to keep our companies. We are going to expand our companies.We are reducing taxes, the biggest tax decrease since Ronald Reagan and could even be bigger than that.Our companies are going to stay. Our companies are going to expand. And our companies are going to thrive. In addition, new companies will be started and new jobs will happen. And we will produce 25 million jobs over a period of 10 years as sure as you're standing there. And I'd give you seats, but there were too many people. Sorry.So, whether it's Carrier -- yes.Oh, is that Carrier Air Conditioning? What's he talking about?Oh you don't have the speaker?I'll tell you, whoever runs this place is not doing very well. You don't have the speaker. They said -- do you hear me over there? Great job, fellows. So now we don't have to pay for this and now we don't have to pay for that.Man.Who the hell runs this place?They say the speakers don't work. And I was having so much fun without these damn teleprompters, right? But an you hear me OK? Can you hear me over there?All right. You're good enough. See there, I wouldn't deduct full, but I'll take 30 percent off the cost for the country.So we'll keep our jobs. We'll thrive. We're going to thrive. We're not going to give Iran -- we're not going to give them $400 million in cash that turned out to be $1.7 billion. Do you believe that?Do you believe that? $1.7 billion in cash. We're giving them $150 billion and now look at what's going on. We've embolden them. Instead of making them our friends, this incompetent president. He's incompetent. We've emboldened -- I mean, this guy, all I, all he does is campaign for Crooked Hillary.Look, he doesn't want Trump because Trump is going to be much different. First of all, one of my first acts is to get rid of his ridiculous healthcare that doesn't work.I wonder who pays for that big plane when he flies into campaign for Hillary?I know the answer. You know what happens? The campaign pays for a tiny little fraction, a tiny little fraction.Is that good or bad? Oh, they just got it working. All right, we'll give them 20 percent off.Good. Sounds much better right? Good voice. Right? All right. Thank you, fellows. That's great. So, we are going to -- well, we have no choice -- repeal and replace Obamacare.Now, you saw what happened. The governor of Minnesota came out, he said the Affordable Care Act is not affordable. It's a disaster. Hey folks, it is a disaster. Hillary Clinton wants to save it. She wants to spend a fortune. Your premiums are going to go up next year over 100 percent. This year, you look at Texas, you look at your area, you look at everywhere, they're going up 50, 60, 70, 80 percent.It is -- it's gone. It's busted. It's broken. It doesn't work. And I told you it didn't work before it was signed, right? Because I know this stuff. I'm pretty good at this stuff. It is a disaster. We're going to have a new healthcare plan that's going to cost much less money, both for you and for the country.And it's going to be a much higher quality healthcare. Remember you can have your doctor, you can have your plan, 28 times. Right? Twenty-eight times he said it, 28 times.Hillary Clinton, when she was at the State Department, $6 billion was found to be missing. You saw that. Right? This is what we're going to have for our president.So here's the story. We are going to have a great, great vibrant country again. We're going to have jobs. We're going to have jobs. We're going to bring back in new jobs. But we're going to take care of things that have never been taken care of. You know what that is? The inner cities. We have....Inner cities, where the crime rate is beyond belief. The levels of poverty are hard to believe we're in this country. The education is virtually non-existent it's so bad. The -- Common Core, we're going to get rid of Common Core, believe me.But you take a look at the African-American folks living in the inner cities, where the crime is so bad you go with your child to get a loaf of bread and you get shot. It's so bad. The crime is out of control. Everything's out of control.You look at Chicago; 300 -- no 3,000 shootings -- 3,000 shootings since January 1st. The crime rate is incredible. Murders in the United States, nobody tells you this. These people don't tell you this. Murders in the United States -- murders in the United States are up 45, did you see the numbers? The highest -- the highest they've been -- the highest they've been in 45 years. Murder.So murder's the highest it's been in 45 years. We are going to make our country so much stronger, so much safer. And for the African-American community living in the hell of these inner cities, we're going to solve the crime problem. We're going to help with education.We're going to bring our jobs back for everybody. We're going to make the communities safe. And you know, I've been saying this. What the hell do you have to lose? They're a disaster. The inner cities are a disaster. All over; Washington, D.C., Baltimore. You look at the crime statistics. I really say it, what do you have to lose? I will fix the inner cities. It's like a passion of mine. I'm good at fixing things, especially real estate.And importantly, we're going to help big league with education. We're going to bring in choice, which is so important. And so important is we're going to bring jobs back to our country so the people actually have jobs.So, I say I hope you're going to vote for Donald Trump. Same things...Same thing....Same thing with the Hispanic-Americans, is that a correct statement? How many Hispanic-Americans do we have here? One, we have at least one. We have a lot. Wow, that's good.We're going to bring jobs back. We're going to bring education back. We're going to bring safety back. Vote for Trump, we're going to fix it. That I can tell you. Vote for Trump.Vote for Trump. So, here's a list of things. We're going to fix our depleted military.Our depleted military -- you look at where we are compared to where we used to be; number of ships, the kind of weaponry we have. You look at what's going on with the people we just made rich. Look at what's going on tonight. Just take a look at what's going on. We want to have peace through strength. We have to be stronger. We have to have better equipment. Our people in the military are the best. But they have old equipment. They have old fighter jets. They have fighter jets that are so old that they have to go to museums where they're on display.They have to go to plane graveyards because they don't make the parts anymore. These are our fighter jets that we're currently using. So we're going to fix our very, very depleted military so that our people in the military can have the kind of depth and the kind of equipment that they deserve. We're going to work with our veterans. Because our veterans, in many cases, are treated far worse than illegal immigrants coming in to the country. We're going to help our veterans. Big veteran state. We're going to help our veterans. And help them big league, and they know my plan. It's been posted. And I have tremendous veteran support.There's not going to be waiting online for nine days and seven days and six days. And people dying, people dying because they can't see a doctor quickly enough for a simple procedure or for a simple prescription.So we're going to fix that and you all know what we're doing. If you have that kind of a wait, you're going outside to a private doctor across the street or you're going to a private or public hospital. We'll pay the bill. But you're not going to be dying in our country, not our veterans. You're not going to be dying, waiting online for seven days, nine days and 10 days.It's very important. We are going to stop drugs from pouring into our country.ICE endorsed us just last week. The Border Patrol agents, 2,000 -- 16,500 and ICE. So we have ICE. We have Border Patrol. First time either one has ever endorsed an presidential candidate.We are going to stop -- and I promised this to the people of New Hampshire because New Hampshire has a tremendous heroin problem. We are going to stop drugs from pouring in to our country and poisoning our youth. We're going to stop it. We're going to stop it.And we're going to stop people from coming into our country illegally. But we are going to have a big beautiful door in our wall. And that door is going to let lots of people in, but they're coming into our country legally.Coming in legally.We're going to protect your Second Amendment, which is under siege.The National Rifle Association endorsed Donald Trump, and it's the earliest endorsement they've ever given to a candidate. So I'm proud of -- these are great people. These are great Americans and they are doing the right thing. So your Second Amendment under siege. If Hillary gets in, forget it. Forget it. We will protect your Second Amendment.Importantly -- importantly -- so importantly, I told you about Obamacare, forget it, it's gone. But so importantly, we are going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court that you will be proud of.Constitution -- we're going to be upholding and respecting our Constitution. So, I just want to say this. When you look back, and we all had a good time, even though your speakers were no good, your teleprompters were no good. As long as Trump was good, that's all that matters. Right?We had a good time. But you're going to look back at this evening. You're going to say, hey I had a good time. But you're going to go home and in 15 years and in 25 years, hopefully in longer than that, you're going to look back at this evening and say this was a very important evening in your life.More importantly, I love those signs, women for Trump because I actually think I'm doing well with women.Woah.See, they may have the worst seats, but they're going to be the most famous people because look at those cameras.So, more importantly, you're going to view your vote on November 8th to be the most important vote that you've ever cast because we're going to take back the White House. We're going to...... have a country that you're going to be so proud of again. We're going to have a country that works. Do you notice we don't win anymore folks. When was the last time we won? We have Iran nipping at us. You look at what's going on. We can't beat ISIS. I always say, George Patton, I was a fan. Today, he couldn't make it because he wasn't politically correct. He was a little on the rough side. Right? He was boom, boom, boom. But George Patton, General Douglas MacArthur, these people are spinning in their graves right now.And for the military people, right? For the military people, the element of surprise, don't we like that? The element of surprise. So, I hear, who knows, but we hear in Mosul that a lot of the leaders of ISIS are in Mosul. Right? I've been hearing that for a while. And they think they're largely in Mosul. About three weeks ago, I started hearing that we, through Iraq, but we are going to attack Mosul. We're going to attack them sometime within the next few months.We're going to hit them hard. Left, right, back, forward. Yes, sir, we're going to attack them. There's only one problem, by the time we attack them all the guys that we want are going to be gone. They're very smart. How stupid are the people that run our country?Why couldn't they keep it quiet? Why couldn't they keep it quiet, knock the hell out of them, grab them all and then announce a week later to the American people that we've gotten the bad ones. The bad ones are gone, folks. They're someplace else. We -- that's for the military people. They understand that better than anybody. Am I right?Do you think General George Patton, if he were in charge -- and by the way, I have over 200 admirals and generals supporting Donald Trump and endorsing Donald Trump.I have 21 recipients of the Medal of Honor that have endorsed Donald Trump. So they like my attitude. They like actually my knowledge. People were surprised the other night when we -- by the way, totally, totally annihilated in the debate.Totally. Remember when she came in front of me. She walked right in front of me. I said, huh, Hi Hillary. But remember she walked in front of me, answered the question, which is fine, I have no problem with it. And then the next day, they put out something. I invaded her space while on the stage. I invaded. Did you see that, right?I'm standing, here's my lectern. No, no. Here's my lectern, and I'm standing there. And we're answering and this and that. And I was three to one. You know, I had Anderson Cooper and I had Martha Raddatz. I don't think she likes me too much.I don't think she likes me too much.No, but I had three to one. In fact, I said, what is this three to one? And Hillary came and she walked right in front of me. I was at my chair. I was at my lectern. I was standing there. The reason is, I didn't want to be scolded for that. And sure as hell, the next day, he violated Hillary's space or to put it another way, he violated the space of Crooked Hillary. So anyway, but she's home now. She's prepping. So we'll see what happens.But when I saw this whole thing on Mosul. Day after day we're attacking Mosul. In two weeks, three weeks, there are not exactly, all they know is that it's happening. What the hell are we doing? What are we doing? So, we're going to have a country run smart. We won't be giving $150 billion to a terrorist state. We'll be looking at the deal so close, inside out and backwards. And if it's not, if they are not living up -- I mean, the hardest part for me is we've given them so much money already. I would have liked it much more before we gave them all that money.But they don't honor that deal to every single little line, every single little word, we're going to rip the sucker up so fast your head will spin. Their head will spin.It's one of the most incompetent deals I've ever seen in my life. I'm not talking about nation-to-nation. Secretary Kerry never stood up and said we're walking. And if he did he could have made a much better deal. And I don't mind making deals for nuclear, I don't mind making great deals. Don't forget Obama thinks that global warming is our biggest threat.I happen to think it's nuclear warming. Our biggest threat is nuclear and it's not global warming. It's nuclear warming. And I'll tell you what, we're going to work very hard on that situation because that situation is getting more and more and more out of control.And Hillary talks tough about Russia and she talks tough about a lot of things. She has no clue. She talked tough about Libya, looked what happened there. She has no clue. She is unfit to be president because she has such bad judgment. Bernie Sanders said she has bad judgment. I said, thank you Bernie, I'm going to be using that for about six months after they take.Look what happened with WikiLeaks. They took the election away from the guy. How could he be supporting her? They took that election away. It was a rigged system. The whole system is rigged. And that's why when the media does what they're doing now, that's rigging the system, folks. It's rigging the system. The election is rigged. It's rigged like you've never seen before. They're rigging the system. These are very dishonest people.So folks, I love the people of North Carolina. Going to be back here a lot over the next 25 days, can you believe it? Twenty-five.But you've got to get out and you've got to vote. Got to get out and vote. You've got to get out and vote because we are going to make our country strong again. We're going to make our country rich again. We're going to make our country smart again. We're going to be a smart country again. And what else are we going to do? We're going to make our country great again.Thank you very much. God bless, you everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.We're also going to end government corruption.Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to run for the presidency of the United States.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.Two boxes -- I don't know if you know this -- two boxes of email evidence has gone missing two weeks ago.And the destruction of laptops in a secret deal with the FBI.Remember also that Crooked Hillary lied under oath to Congress, saying she had never sent or received classified information on her insecure server.Hillary then told the FBI she couldn't remember 39 times. Bad memory. And then in written testimony last week under oath, she couldn't remember approximately 21 times.What's happened to the Department of Justice, what's happened to the FBI is so sad. You have so many incredible people in Justice and the FBI. And they must be absolutely reeling. They probably don't believe themselves what's going on.This is totally corruption by any standards. Undersecretary Kennedy needs to resign.This magnitude is worse, in my opinion and in the opinion of many people in law enforcement, this is worse than Watergate, what's going on with her. And what did she get out of it? She gets to run for the presidency of the United States.But we're going to put an end to that on November 8th.Those polls were great today, but, you know, they're also showing there's like an undercurrent that they can't poll. Remember when I was in the primaries: How's he doing in such and such? Well, it looks like he won't win that state. Then the next day it's like, he won in a landslide. They said, what happened?We'll take it any way. I mean, this is, I guess like people don't want to say they are voting for Trump, which is OK. We'll take it any way we can. Do you agree?But there's a big, big undercurrent out there. Another series of emails shows top officials in the Clinton campaign scheming to take massive sums of money from foreign lobbyists. One of the emails from a top Hillary official said, quote, "Take the money" with -- and you know what they had, exclamation, exclamation -- just "take the money."This is money bundled by people registered as lobbyists on behalf of foreign governments.Remember, we're competing in a rigged election. This is a rigged election process. And I said it with me -- remember I won Louisiana? I said: Oh, how many delegates do I get? And they showed me that my opponents had more than I. I said, wait a minute, what's going on here? I won the state. I went there on a Friday night. We had these massive crowds, great state, and I won the state.But it is. And Bernie Sanders with his, you know, super delegates, everything else, Bernie Sanders, I'll bet he wished he wished he didn't endorse Hillary. He would have been something very special in history, but we're not going to let that happen to us, OK? Not to the movement.The media is trying to rig the election by giving credence -- and this is so true -- by giving credence to false stories that have no validity and make it the front page. They take a story with absolutely nothing, that didn't exist, and they put it front page news because they want to poison the minds of the voters.Well, they really do. I mean, they want to poison the minds. They take things and statements and put it in from 30 years ago, from 20 years ago. By the way, just so you understand, just to be very clear, events that never happened. Just so you do understand that. It's so amazing. It's amazing.I think most people do believe me. That's why we are having -- and it's in our favor -- a backlash like nobody's ever seen before. They're tired. People are tired of it -- front page news, a phone call; front page news, and then it turns out it's false stuff. It's all false stuff. There's a backlash.A very, very prominent person from Wisconsin just left the back room. I said hello to him, and he said, "Mr. Trump, I want to thank you. You are taking abuse the likes of which nobody has ever run for office has taken." Very prominent person. And I really appreciate it.And we have our generals and we have our sheriff. Nobody going to mess with this guy.Nobody going to mess with this guy. And he was there early when he endorsed Trump. He was there very early when he endorsed. Thank you, Sheriff. I appreciate it. Sheriff Clark. And his family, more importantly, more importantly. Thank you for being here. Appreciate it.The media is an extension of the Clinton campaign, as WikiLeaks has proven. And they don't talk about WikiLeaks. They just keep talking about Trump, Trump, Trump. They want to put nice sexy headlines up, even though nothing happened, nothing took place, even though it's a total fabrication. They've got to start talking about WikiLeaks. They've got to start talking about the things that are going on.Remember this, Hillary even got --That's OK. You notice, it's always one at a time. One at a time.By the way, where is Diane Hendricks? Where is she? Where is she? She's so amazing. One of your great, great successful people. She's an amazing woman. Diane, I know you're here someplace. Wherever you are, an amazing woman.Hillary even got the questions and answers in advance of a major debate. How do you do that? And think of it, nobody made a big deal. Nobody even knows about it. She got the questions in advance to essentially a debate.Can you imagine -- no, no -- can you imagine if Donald Trump got the questions in advance? You know what they'd do? They'd reinvent the electric chair. That's what they'd do. You don't even hear about that. Sheriff, did you ever hear about this? Nobody has. She got -- and by the way, behind you is one of your great football players, folks. Look at this guy.And he is a man of God, I will tell you. Thank you. Thank you. One of the greats. Oh, those championships. I don't know about Green Bay this year. What do you think? Are they going to be OK? He says yes, they'll be OK.A new report from the Center of Public Integrity shows that 96 percent of so-called journalists or reporters who made presidential donations this cycle gave their money, gave themselves, gave everything to Crooked Hillary Clinton. Can you believe that?They even want to try to rig the elections at the polling booths. And believe me, there's a lot going on. Do you ever hear these people? They say there's nothing going on. People that have died 10 years ago are still voting. Illegal immigrants are voting. I mean, where are the street smarts of some of these politicians?They don't have any. He's right.So many cities are corrupt and voter fraud is very, very common. The following information comes straight from Pew Research, quote, "Approximately 24 million people, one of every eight, voter registrations in the United States are no longer valid or significantly inaccurate." One in eight. More than 1.8 million deceased individuals right now are listed as voters. Oh, that's wonderful.Well, if they're going to vote for me, we'll think about it, right? But I have a feeling they're not going to vote for me. Of the 1.8 million, 1.8 million is voting for somebody else. Approximately 2.75 million people have registrations in more than one state.Do we love our police. Do we love our police law enforcement? Law enforcement, thank you.Then there's the issue of illegal immigrants voting. The following comes from a 2014 report from the Washington Post. This article was entitled, "Could non-citizens decide the November election?" Here are some excerpts."More than 14 percent of non-citizens in both 2008 and 2010 samples indicated that they were registered to vote." Oh, isn't that wonderful. "Because non-citizens tend to favor Democrats, " to put it mildly, "Obama won more than 80 percent of the votes of non-citizens in the 2008 sample."You don't read about this, right? They don't tell you about this. Your politicians don't tell you about this when they tell you how legitimate all of these elections are. They don't want to tell you about this. "We find that this participation was large enough to plausibly account for Democratic victories in various close elections."OK? All right? "Non-citizen votes could have given Senate Democrats the pivotal 60th vote needed to overcome filibusters in order to pass healthcare reform and many other reforms, and other Obama administration priorities."Now, it continues: "It is possible that non-citizen votes were responsible for Obama's 2008 victory in North Carolina. Obama won the state by 14,000 votes, so a turnout by 5.1 percent of North Carolina's adult citizens " -- and by the way, we're doing great in North Carolina; We're going to win North Carolina.But we don't want non-citizen voters, if that's OK. Is that all right to ask that? It could have provided his margin of victory.Our system is also rigged by the donors giving hundreds of millions of dollars to Hillary Clinton's campaign. And again, I will have spent over $100 million on my campaign. I am controlling myself. I'm working for you, folks. I'm working for you, believe me.And they're all telling me what a great job and what a big movement -- there's never been anything like this in this country, and they all admit it. Even the enemies back there admit it. But if I don't win, it will be the greatest waste of time, energy and money that I will have -- oh, what a waste. What a waste. They all say, it won't be a waste. You'll be in the history books.Let me tell you something, folks: I don't want to be in -- I want to win. If we win, we will do something. We will make -- we're going to make America great again.The reason that Hillary Clinton pushes the job-killing NAFTA, Transpacific Partnership -- which you cannot let happen. It's a disaster.And for complete -- oh, don't worry, we're building the wall. Build the wall.Who is going to pay for the wall?One hundred percent. By the way, I'm not kidding, 100 percent.All of these partnerships and for completely open borders. She wants open borders. She wants people to pour across our borders. We won't have a country, folks. It's because her international donors control every single move she makes.If we let the Clinton cartel run this government, history will record that 2017 was the year America lost its independence. So important. We will not let that happen. It is time.It is time to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C.This is why I'm proposing a package of ethics reforms to make our government honest once again. When Bill Clinton -- who was right about Obamacare two weeks ago, by the way. He said it's crazy, crazy -- came into office, he signed an executive order saying if you work for the White House or a federal agency, you can't lobby the government for five years after you leave.But then President Clinton did what the Clintons always do. He rigged the system on his way out. Clinton lifted the executive order so Clinton cronies like John Podesta could start raking in cash.So here's what we as a group are announcing tonight. First, I'm going to reinstitute a five-year ban on all executive branch officials lobbying the government for five years after they leave government service.I'm going to ask Congress to pass this ban into law so that it cannot be lifted by executive order, right?Third, I'm going to expand the definition of "lobbyist " so we close all the loopholes that former government officials use by labeling themselves consultants, advisers, all of these different things, and they get away with murder.Fourth, I'm going to issue a lifetime ban against senior executive branch officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government.Fifth, I'm going to ask Congress to pass a campaign finance reform that prevents registered foreign lobbyists from raising money in American elections and politics.This will go a long way to ending our government corruption, but we will end economic stagnation also, and that will help. My plan for the economy can be summed up in three very beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs.Jobs. They're taking our jobs away. They're going to Mexico. They're going all over the place. We're going to keep our companies here, folks. They're not leaving. If they want to leave, there will be consequences. You understand that. And they won't leave when they hear those consequences. Believe me, they're not leaving.Our politicians have worked for years to try and keep our companies. It's so easy. It's so easy. You want to leave? You want to build? You want to build -- whatever you want to build -- cars. Ford is leaving. Carrier is leaving. So many companies. There's so many.You know, we lost 70,000 factories -- 70,000 factories since the signing of NAFTA. I thought it was a typographical error. I figured maybe 700; maybe 7,000: 70,000 factories.At the center of my jobs plan will be fixing our terrible trade bills. They are horrible. Forty-seven million Americans are in poverty, and 45 million Americans are on, right now, food stamps. We have nearly an $800 billion annual trade deficit in goods with the rest of the world; and the worst so-called recovery by far since the Great Depression.Did you see the jobs numbers the other day? Horrible. You saw our GDP is going to be, in my opinion, less than 1 percent. You know, if China goes to 7 percent, 8 percent, 9 percent, it's like a national catastrophe. If we are at less than 1 percent, which is what it will be, it's like, oh, what else?We're not going to put up with it. It's the Clintons who gave us NAFTA. He signed it, remember that. Bill Clinton signed the worst trade deal in the history of the world.And the Clintons who gave us China's entry into the World Trade Organization. Here in Wisconsin -- do we love Wisconsin?You know why I'm here? First of all, I have a lot of friends here. But you know why I'm here? I'm here because everyone's calling me, everyone's calling to say we're going to win Wisconsin.It's not so traditional -- no, but it's not so traditional for a Republican to be in this position. Mostly they say, well, we'll have to skip Wisconsin. Not me. We're going to win Wisconsin.Companies like Briggs & Stratton have cut thousands of manufacturing jobs and moved them where? To China. G.E. Healthcare recently closed its Milwaukee location and shipped those jobs to Mexico. Did you know that, Sheriff? They just closed up. That's a lot of jobs they shipped over to Mexico.Johnson Controls shuttered its plants in Milwaukee and West Allis and moved the jobs to Mexico and moved the jobs to China, and moved the jobs all over the place except for here.The list goes on and on. Many, many companies leaving Wisconsin, leaving everywhere. They're leaving our country. We are living through the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. It's true. Our companies are being raided. Our jobs are being let go. We end up with unemployment and empty buildings. They end up with cash. They end up with cash; tremendous factories like you've never seen, magnificent plants, jobs all over the place.You know, we end up actually with two things: unemployment and drugs. They end up with the cash. We end up with the drugs. Not so good.A Trump administration is going to renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to China, and get along with China. We don't get along with China now. They rip us off. And stop the jobs from leaving our country. And I do a lot of business with China. I have the largest bank in the world as a tenant in one of my buildings in Manhattan, and China is wonderful. I mean, I wish our people ran our country, I mean, like, they're like smart people. They're smart people. We don't have smart people running our country.We have people that are incompetent. We have a president -- we have a president, all he wants to do is campaign for Hillary Clinton so that she can double your health care costs. All he does is campaign.This guy, every time you see him, he's campaigning for Clinton, and frankly, he ought to be working on jobs. He ought to be working on the Second Amendment and the border and all these different things. He ought to be working on taking care of our veterans, right, and our military.There's a guy -- we go into Mosul. We go into Mosul. And why don't we just go in quietly, right? They used to call it a sneak attack. Let's call it we want to do it nice and easy. I've been reading about it for four months. Now a primary reason for going in was we wanted to get the leaders of ISIS, right? They're gone, folks. They're smart people. They read the same newspapers and articles that we read. They said, "Hey, they're going to attack Mosul in four months; let's get the hell out of here." They're all over the place.How stupid are our people. Can you imagine the great General George Patton and General MacArthur? I really had a lot of respect. You know what they're doing, right? They're spinning in their graves. And I see we will be attacking some time next week. I've been reading about this for months. And I honestly -- a big, big part, I've always heard -- and I always used to wonder why they don't go in.But I meant like, quietly -- boom! -- right? Surprise. Remember? They used to call it the element of surprise. Now our element of surprise is "in four months we will be attacking Mosul." I wonder what General Flynn -- what our generals think about that? Not too good. Not too good. I can tell you what General Flynn thinks of it.As part of our plan to create at least 25 million jobs in 10 years, we're going to lower our business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent.We're going to make our nation rich again. We're going to have great companies. We're going to have great jobs and jobs are going to start coming back to America. But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. National security begins at the border. Speaking in a secret meeting to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said her dream is for total open trade -- there go the rest of your jobs -- and open borders. There goes your country.Between open trade -- your jobs -- open borders -- your country -- so you lost your jobs and your country. Other than that, she's doing a great job. By "open trade," she means foreign countries can cheat us out of millions of dollars and millions of jobs -- and literally not millions of dollars; really, it's really trillions and trillions of dollars.By open borders, she means totally unlimited immigration. In a secret speech to Goldman Sachs, she said citizens who want to control immigration are "un-Amercan." I don't think so. Deplorable, right? Irredeemable. Irredeemable.. He's a deplorable guy. He looks good to me. So Hillary thinks most of the country is either deplorable or irredeemable, un-American, racist, or basement dwellers. That's what she called Bernie Sanders' people -- basement dwellers. Oh, Bernie, why did you do it, Bernie?-- are not only going to make that, but we're going to have a lot of trade. We're going to make breakthroughs. We're going to have a double highway. We're going to have things coming back to us --So let me state this as clearly as I can.-- administration will secure ---- and defend our borders. And yes, we will build the wall that we just -- so tell me about the wall. Other people, many other people, but they are poisoning our youth before our youth get a chance to go and make it. They are being poisoned by this garbage that's pouring in from the southern border.Secretary of State Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released because their home countries wouldn't take them back. We would bring them -- we would have a murderer, we would have a drug lord, we would have the heads of gangs and gang members, we'd bring them back to their countries.They intelligently said, "We don't want them." Kick them out. And our guys would say, "Oh, yes, OK." And Hillary Clinton never forced these criminals back into their own countries where they came from.And I guarantee you, not one time as president will you see that happen, not one time. There will be no times when we don't take these people and put them into their country where that country is telling us, "Take them back; We don't want that murderer." That country is taking their people back.There's a reason they are here. You remember a long time ago I said they are forcing some of the people in. Let me tell you, we have some people in this country that are bad dudes. We're getting them out, we're bringing them back to the country they came from, and the country is going to take them.The ICE officers, in their endorsement of me, described Hillary's proposal as, quote, "the most radical immigration proposal in United States history." Here is a summary of Hillary's plan. Support totally for sanctuary cities ---- Some bad, bad people are getting security in sanctuary cities.Social Security, Medicare, and lifetime welfare for illegal immigrants by making them all citizens. And in many cases they are being treated better than our great veterans. Remember that. And we're not going to allow it.Obamacare for illegal immigrants; No deportation of visa overstays; Expanded catch-and-release on the border. You catch them, hey, go ahead, do whatever you want. It's called catch-and-release. Expanding President Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty, including instant work permits for millions of illegal workers.And that's over Obama's number.Either we win this election or we lose our country. I mean that. I really believe this is the last time. This is it, folks. This is it. I really believe this is the last shot we have. I sort of felt it last time. This time I don't just feel it. I know it.Under a Trump administration it's going to be America First.And do you know that -- where are your parents? Where are your parents? Wow, congratulations. What a gem. What a beautiful person you are.They did a good job. Come on up here. Come on. So beautiful. Look at this.And do you love Wisconsin?This is what it's all about, right? Beautiful. Beautiful job; beautiful job, mom and dad. We just made two big stars. We made two big stars. Two great people. Thank you.Here are some of the amazing things we are going to do for our country starting in 2017. We're going to have one of the biggest job-producing tax cuts in American history. It's going to be amazing. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation.We are going to defend religious liberty.We will provide school choice to every low-income child in America. Rebuild our depleted military and take care of our great, great, great veterans.We're going to support the men and women of law enforcement.We will again repeal and replace Obamacare.Here's one very important to Wisconsin. We will save our Second Amendment ---- which is under siege.We will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.I'm going to fight for every citizen of every background, from every stretch of this nation. I'm going to fight for every child living in poverty. We have so much poverty in this country, which is so hard to believe. I'm going to fight for every mom who lost her child to illegal immigration and drugs and gang violence.I'm going to fight for every community whose jobs and dreams have been ripped out and shipped to other countries. So many. I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and special interests.I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. We live in a very divided country. We're not going to live in a divided country much longer. There's going to be spirit. We're going to get along.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.I want to tell you, Wisconsin loves this country. You really do. You people are amazing. In 10 and 20 and 30 and 40 years, you're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You're going to remember this day. This is a movement like nobody in this country has ever seen before.You're going to look back at this election and say, "This is by far the most important vote I've ever cast for anyone at any time."Because once again, we're going to have a government of, by and for the people.And you will see things start to happen. We are going to make America wealthy again. We are going to make America strong again. We are going to make America safe again. And we are going to make America great again.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. God bless you, everybody. God bless you.In 21 days, we are going to win the state of Colorado and we're going to win the White House. We're going to take it back.And while I'm at it, make sure you mail in those ballots before election day. Early voting starts on the 24th, you've got to mail them in. But get there, November 8th.I'd like to also start today by recognizing the incredible military contributions of Colorado Springs, a place I actually know very well. One of the most beautiful places, by the way. We have such amazing people working at Fort Carson, Peterson Air Force Base, the United States Space Command, NORAD, Schriever Air Force Base and the United States Air Force Academy. Good place.I've got many friends that went to the Air Force Academy, all very smart. They love their airplanes, that I can tell you. The courage and selflessness of our servicemembers and their devotion to each other and to their country are the traits that we need to make America great again.Great people. Together, we're going to deliver real change that puts America First. You don't hear that term very much. We don't hear that term very much anymore, do we? America First, right? If I win, it's going to be America First every single time, that I can tell you. Believe me.We're going to end the government corruption and we're going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C.We are going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees from other countries, reduce surging crime, cut taxes big league and end regulations, unleash job-producing American energy, rebuild our great military, which sadly has become very depleted, but the greatest people on Earth. We're going to take care of our veterans like they have never been taken care of before. And repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.Your jobs will come back under a Trump administration. Your incomes will go up under a Trump administration. You're taxes will go down under a Trump administration.Your country's -- and I tell you, your country is so proud of you, but right now we have to help our country. We have to help our country. It is under siege in so many ways. By the way, you could almost stay, especially from the dishonest media, that's for sure.Very dishonest. Your companies won't be leaving Colorado under a Trump administration. They'll be expanding and there will be new companies coming in. Right now, we're not growing at all as a nation. You look at our jobs report, a disaster. Last week a jobs report, total disaster. Look at our GNP, total disaster.Under my plan, we're going to grow at 4 percent. Right now, we're at about 1 percent.China's at 7 percent. India's at 8 percent. We're at 1 percent and it's going to be going down if we keep -- if Hillary Clinton gets in, you will set record lows, believe me. That I can tell you.We're going to create at least 25 million new jobs in 10 years. And by the way, did you see the protesters yesterday, where they call them. The protesters are paid a lot of money by the DNC. And I kept saying, I wonder why those people are here? Because they never seem to have much on their mind, other than stand up and protest.And yesterday it came out, but it was barely covered by the media. But it's all over the media. They were busted. They were paid $1,500 each and were given cell phones -- go up and disturb Trump rallies. And I sort of always knew it, in Chicago, even last night. We had people stand up for no reason. It's like, what are they doing here? And can you imagine, that's a big story, hardly covered by the media.So bad. We're also going to create a new government that answers to the people. Hillary Clinton -- Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to run for the presidency.She shouldn't be allowed to run for the presidency after what she's done. I'll tell you. It's true. Newly released, two days ago, FBI documents reveal just how deep the corruption goes. The undersecretary of state, Patrick Kennedy, illegally pressured the FBI to unclassify emails from Hillary Clinton's illegal server.It's hard to believe. And nothing happens to her, folks, and nothing ever happens. In other words, the State Department was trying to cover up Hillary's crime of sending classified information on a server our enemies could easily access.The FBI document show that Patrick Kennedy made the request for altering classification as part of a very, very serious quid pro quo. Not allowed to do it. This is a felony corruption. Yesterday, I said Undersecretary Kennedy must immediately resign.The media barely covers this event, by the way.This is a bigger event than Watergate and they practically refuse to cover it. Today, I'm calling for him to be fired.Clinton and her cronies have sacrificed your security, your family's safety and your country's safety as though it meant nothing at all to her.Remember also that Hillary lied under oath to Congress, saying that she never sent or received classified information on her secret server. Right? She never received it on that insecure server, that she should have never been allowed to have. That you're not allowed to have. And pretended not to know. Remember this one: that the letter "C" meant confidential information was classified.She thought it was the lettering of a paragraph.There's never been a time in our country's history where anything like this has gone on. And the FBI, there must be people in there, based on what you read, that are ashamed of what's happened. And the Department of Justice, there must be people in there that are ashamed, absolutely ashamed of what's been going on.Hillary then told the FBI she couldn't remember 39 times. And then in written testimony last week, under oath, she said that she couldn't remember another 21 times. Bad memory. She's got a terrible memory.This elaborate, criminal coverup included Hillary's deleting and bleaching of 33,000 emails. The disappearance of 13 iPhones, some by hammers, two boxes of email evidence gone missing, that was as of last week. Can you imagine they're now missing on top of everything else, two boxes of emails? And the destruction of laptops, in a secret deal with the FBI.This truly is, and I said it, this truly is many times worse than Watergate. And we're going to put an end to it on November 8th.Going to do it.Another series of leaked emails show top officials in the Clinton campaign scheming to take massive sums of money from registered foreign lobbyists. And then you wonder why we do so badly. But you don't hear the media talking about that at all, do you? You don't see it at all. As WikiLeaks proved, the media, is merely, and it truly is, it's just an extension of the Clinton campaign.The press has created a rigged system and poisoned the mind of so many of our voters. They have rigged it from the beginning by telling totally false stories. Most recently about phony allegations where I have been under constant attack. They attack my business. I built a great business but, although most people do admit that. They attacked my wonderful family. They attacked my temperament.But I built an incredible company, those papers are filed. And I'm fortunate to have a beautiful and loving family. You all saw Melania last night on television. Did a great job.That she even has to do that is a shame. And my temperament has always been just about my greatest strength. We have a winning temperament. Our country doesn't win anymore. We don't win anymore. This is an election about truth. And you're not going to get it from the dishonest media.Some people can't handle the truth. No matter what people may think of me, the one thing they know is that we're going to tell the American people where we stand, where we are. We're going to tell them the truth.Now even though we're doing pretty good in the polls, I don't believe the polls anymore. I don't believe them. I don't believe them. And if there's 10, and if there's one or two bad ones, that's the only one they show.Believe me, folks, we're doing great. If we keep our spirit, and if we go out and win, this is another Brexit, believe me. They are so worried. That's why they've become vicious and hostile and dirty because they see what's going on. This rally set up just a short while ago; look at the number of people, packed. But every rally is the same way.Sort of funny. She's been doing this for 30 years. Now she has to do debate prep for five days. You know what the debate prep is? It's resting. It's lying down, going to sleep. I think the media's trying to discourage our people from going out to vote. And it was just brought up to me by a reporter in the back.They said, you know, it's very interesting, when you were fighting 17 people, the media was nasty, but they really got nasty when we started to take the lead in the polls. They said, "Wait a minute, this thing's going to happen. It's going to happen."Change -- stop our jobs from leaving, our companies from leaving, strengthen our military, preserve our Second Amendment. They're saying, this is going to happen. And it is true. Made up stories. They're liars and made up stories.Without the media and all of the other corrupt entities that have helped her along the way, she would be nothing. She would be nothing. She really -- she would be doing so badly. Even my worst critics agree that the media has come after us like they have never come after anyone before. It's my badge of honor.I mean, you know, what am I going to do? Even the New York Times, which is totally dishonest, by the way -- here's the good news about the New York Times. They won't be in business much longer. Do you see what they're losing?They are dying. They are dying. And they're dying also because they're very dishonest. But one of their biggest columnist-reporters wrote a story about how bad it is. He said, let's face it -- this is in the New York Times -- "balance has been on vacation since Mr. Trump stepped onto this golden Trump Tower escalator to announce his candidacy."Can you believe that? They're admitting it. They don't even care. It actually said that -- we don't care. They will do anything to stop what we're doing. Not me, it's what we're doing. It's an agenda. It's going to agenda of change. But we won't let them stop maybe the greatest movement in the history of our country.History is watching us now, waiting to see if we will rise to the moment. We have to rise. We have to do it. We're under tremendous opposition. We have the greatest people in the world. That's what I've learned. Somebody said, what's the most important thing you learned? How great the American people are. I've gone all over the country.I have two things -- I've learned that, and I've learned how totally dishonest the media is. It's so dishonest. I've learned that, too. They are the most dishonest people I've ever dealt with. Not all of them, but, honestly, like 75 percent. Some are very good, but for the most part, yes.We have stories that we think are going to unbelievable stories. They turn out -- they make them as bad as possible. We have stories on the other side that would normally dismantle a campaign, and they don't even report them. It's a disgrace. What's going on is a disgrace.But we've only just begun to fight, believe me. We have three weeks. You know what, we have three weeks. And I hear we're going great in Colorado. My people in back said, "You're going to win Colorado, doesn't matter what they say."Get out and vote. But they even want to try and rig the election at the polling booths where so many cities are corrupt. And you see that. And voter fraud is all too common. And then they criticize us for saying that. And we have even Republicans, "Oh, that's such a terrible thing to say."Well, take a look at Philadelphia, what's been going on. Take a look at Chicago, take a look at St. Louis. Take a look at some of these cities where you see things happening that are horrendous. And if you talk about them, they say bad things about you. They call you a racist. They call you all -- and by the way, speaking of that, nobody will do more for the African-American citizens of this country than Donald Trump, nobody, nobody. Nobody will do more for the Latino community than Donald Trump, I can tell you.In 2014, the Washington Post, another beauty, published an article entitled, "Could Non-Citizens Decide the November Election?" The article found that 14 percent of non-citizens were registered to vote, 14 percent were registered to vote. And we're not supposed to talk about it. And your Republican leaders said, "Oh, this -- everything is peachy-dory, " right? And it also found non-citizen voting may have given Democrats the pivotal sixtieth vote needed to pass Obamacare. It's a Washington policy, not me.The system is also rigged by the donors giving hundreds of millions of dollars to Crooked Hillary's campaign. It's rigged. It's a bad system. The reason Hillary Clinton pushes for NAFTA -- or the Transpacific Partnership, which will also be a disaster -- NAFTA's the worst trade deal ever signed, ever made, by anybody in the world.We're a one-way highway out. We get the drugs, right? We get the drugs. We get the unemployment. We get the empty factories. Mexico and other countries get the cash. They get the employment. They get the plants.And for completely open borders -- she wants completely open borders, is because her international donors control her every move. If we let Crooked Hillary's cartel and -- and just remember this -- run this government, history will record that 2017 was the year that America lost, truly lost, its independence, truly lost its independence.And by the way, this is our final shot, folks. In four years, it's over. You're never going to be able to win. You're never going to be able to win. It's tilting. It's going to be a one-party system. This is your final shot for the Supreme Court, for your Second Amendment. I mean, this is your final shot, November 8th.So hopefully you'll do what you know you have to do. Get out of bed and vote. No matter how you're feeling, no matter how you're feeling.It is indeed time to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. This is why I'm proposing a package of ethics reforms to make our government honest once again. First, I'm going to institute a five-year ban on all executive branch officials lobbying the government after they leave government service, right?Second, I'm going to ask Congress to institute its own five-year ban on lobbying by former members of Congress and their staffs. That's a simple one. And they know this should be done, but they're not going to do it, but they'll do it if I get in.I'm going to, number three, expand the definition of lobbyists so that we close all the loopholes that former government officials use by labeling themselves as consultants and advisers, when we all know that really what they are is lobbyists, right? Make a lot of money. They're will be a lot of push-back on that one, but I'm going to get it through, I really believe it. I'm going to issue a lifetime ban against senior executive branch officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. That's an easy one. Number five, I'm going to ask Congress to pass a campaign finance reform that prevents registered foreign lobbyists from raising money in American elections. Wouldn't that be nice? But there's another major announcement I'm going to make today as part of our pledge to drain the swamp. If I'm elected President, I will push for a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.Right? I've been talking about that for years. Decades of failure in Washington and decades of special interest dealing must and will come to an end. And remember, by the time this ends, I will have spent over $100 million on my campaign. Hillary's spent nothing. She gets all her money from the special interest donors. And my interest is you; my interest is you.And remember the deportation of 800 people? Turned out to be 800 people, then went to 1,800 people.And they were going to be deported for good reason. You know, if our country deports somebody, they've got to be pretty, pretty out there. Well, they pressed the wrong button, and congratulations, we have 1,800 new citizens of the United States.And when I said, "undo it, " they said that wouldn't be constitutional. Hey, folks, how stupid are we being led? The time for congressional term limits has finally arrived. Not only will it end our government corruption, but we will end the economic stagnation that we're in right now. No growth.My plan for the economy can be summed up in three very beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs. It will happen.At the center of our historic jobs plan will be fixing our terrible trade deals, which I've wanted to do from the beginning; 47 million Americans are in poverty and 45 million Americans are living right now on food stamps. It's hard to believe this is our country.We have nearly an $800 billion annual trade deficit in goods with the world. And the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression. Do you know that? The worst since the Great Depression. Colorado has lost one in seven manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, and a deal supported by Hillary Clinton very strongly.And this I thought was a typographical error, because I figured they meant 700 or 7,000, but it wasn't: We've lost 70,000 factories since China's entry into the World Trade Organization. Another Bill- and Hillary-backed disaster.We are living through the greatest job theft in the history of the world. More jobs have been stolen from our country, so stupidly we let them go. We let our companies go so foolishly. We don't know what we're doing. A Trump administration is going to renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to the foreign cheating, and stop the jobs from leaving our country, and have jobs come back in the other direction.As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we're going to lower our business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent.Can you believe this? Since January 1st. The national murder rate has experienced the largest single year increase in more than 45 years. Can you believe that? Murder, highest rate in 45 years.So you don't -- they don't seem to. She said, "nobody cares." And you're right, they don't seem too. So to those African-Americans suffering, to those Latinos suffering, I say: What do you have to lose? Elect Donald Trump. I will fix it. We will fix it.We will fix it. We're going to get a very big African-American vote. We're going to get a very big Latino vote. Because the Democrats come in, they want your vote. And as soon as you give them the vote, they say, "See you in four years." They don't do anything. It's gotten worse and worse for both the African-Americans, the Latino-Hispanics. It's gotten worse and it will only get worse.They want your vote. Hillary Clinton said she was going to fix up the state of New York when she ran for the Senate. It is a total disaster. We will be a rich nation once again. But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country.I promise, we will build the wall.Hillary Clinton said her dream is for total open trade. There go your jobs; and open borders -- there goes your country. Simple as that.There are already a record 65 million people in the United States who speak a language other than English. It's in their interest and everyone's interest to control immigration so past arrivals can integrate into society and really join the middle class and the upper class.But in a secret speech to Goldman Sachs, she said, citizens who want to control immigration are "un-American." In other words, if you want to have a border, you want to have a wall, which creates a country. Even if you want people to come in, but come in through a legal process, she considers that un-American. So Hillary thinks most of the country is either deplorable, irredeemable, un-American, racist, or basement dwellers in the case of the Bernie Sanders people. She said they were basement dwellers. Hillary's plan includes an open border with the Middle East, meaning generations of radicalism and terrorism spreading and growing within our shores.We will be the great Trojan horse folks. As sure as you're standing there. Just today, an Iraqi refugee approved for entry by Hillary Clinton's State Department pled guilty to joining ISIS. He entered as a refugee in November of 2009. And then we approved for a green card in 2011. It's one of hundreds of examples of the United States voluntarily admitting people from the world's most dangerous places who turn out to be terrorists.So let me state this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected president of the United States, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorist the hell out of our country. We have enough problems.We have enough problems. We've got big problems: $20 trillion in debt. We have problems like you wouldn't believe. We'll also stop the crisis of illegal immigration. A Trump administration will secure and defend our borders. And we will build that wall and Mexico will pay for that wall.We just got the first-ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol Office. First time they've ever done it. ICE was just last week. As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released because their home countries would not take them back. They were too evil. They were too evil -- drug lords, heads of gangs. I mean these people were evil. They wouldn't take them back.So we come over -- we bring -- they won't take them back. Oh, take them back, drop them on the streets. And then you wonder why the murder rate is the highest in 45 years and other things.The ICE officer described Hillary's proposal as quote, "The most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history." Here's a summary of the Hillary plan. She wants to support sanctuary cities.She wants Social Security, Medicare and lifetime welfare for illegal immigrants by making them all citizens. They get taken care of better than our great vets. That won't happen. She wants Obamacare for illegal immigrants. Obamacare is not going to be here much longer, folks. You see what's going on. Regardless. No deportation of Visa overstays. Expanding catch-and-release on the border. She wants it expanded. In other words, catch them and say, "Oh, you can go."Expanding President Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty, including instant work permits for millions of illegal workers. Freeing even -- there go your jobs -- freeing even more criminal aliens by expanding Obama's non-enforcement directives.And this is to me, the beauty of them all. Obama has allowed thousands and thousands and thousands of people to come in, Syrians from the Middle East. She wants an increase of 550 percent in Syrian refugees into our country.Either we win this election, or we lose our country. Under a Trump administration, it's going to be America First.Here are some of the amazing things we're going to do for our country starting in 2017. We're so close. We have to get it over the line. We're so close. Forget the press. Read the internet, study other things, don't go for the mainstream media. Most of them -- good news -- fortunately most of them won't be around very much longer, in my opinion. They're going down. Financially, big trouble. A lot of big trouble. They've got a lot of big trouble. That's good.We're going to have -- and I do get a lot of honesty over the internet. You do get some dishonesty, too, but at least you can separate it. We should have a choice. We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan and maybe even bigger. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We are going to defend religious liberty, provide school choice to every low- income child in America. And get rid of common core so that we can have education locally.We are going to support the men and women of law enforcement.Law and order and justice. Law and order and justice. We are going to save something that is under tremendous stress. We're going to save your Second Amendment.And we're going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.You have 21 days to make every dream you've ever dreamed for you family, for your grandchildren, for you children, for yourself, for your country to come true. Our campaign is powered by our love for this country and our love for our fellow citizens. There's a lot of love in this room. A lot of love. And we don't want a divided country. We want to bring other people. We want to love everybody in our country. It's a campaign about rejecting the cynicism and the elitism of our failed political establishment. On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington, D.C. will come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter. That's you, and you.I am going to fight so hard for every citizen, of every background, for every single stretch of this nation. I am going to fight for every child living in poverty. I'm going to fight for every mom whose lost her child to illegal immigration and drugs and gang violence, and the viciousness that it all builds.I'm going to fight for every community whose jobs and factories have turned into dust. And those jobs and factories are not with us any more. They're in other countries, making everybody rich but us.I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and the special interests.And with all the money she made, she doesn't put up any money into her own campaign. That's pretty remarkable. I'm doing it. I'm going to fight to bring us all together. We're not going to be divided anymore as Americans. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.Thank you. In 10 years, in 20 years, in 30 years, you're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You're going to remember this beautiful day in this great state and in this truly great country. This is a movement that they have never seen before. They've never seen anything like this before. There has never been like this before.You're going to look back at this election and say, "This is by far the most important vote, you've ever cast, for anyone at any time."Once again, we're going to have a government of, by, and for the people.You will see, and be so proud of your country again and hopefully you'll be so proud of your president again.We will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you, everybody. God bless you. November 8th, go out and vote. November 8th. God bless you, everybody.Thank you. Wow. This is incredible. You know we have people wrapped all the way around the hangar as deep as this? I hope they can come over here. Should we let them over here? Yes, right? Right?These are people from the western slopes. We better let them over, right? Come on over, folks. Get on over here. There are thousands of people back there. Well, it's 21 days we are going to win the state of Colorado, and we are going to win the White House. We're going to win the White House.I'll tell you what, we are going through some very interesting times. But it's going to be so exciting on November 8th, that's the big day. Get out and vote, right? Get out and vote.And make sure to mail the ballots. You have those ballots, those very beautiful ballots. Election day, early voting. I think it starts, what, the 24th? Is it the 24th? Yes. So, do the early voting if you can. Definitely November 8th we get out. We're going to win, we're going to take back the White House, we're going to put America First again.We're going to deliver real, real change. It's going to be a beautiful thing. And we are going to end the government of corruption, which it has definitely been. And we are going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C., and that's what it is.We're also going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, reduce surging crime all over our country, cut taxes and regulations. She wants to build your taxes. Rebuild our military, which is in pretty sad shape right now, unfortunately.It's very depleted. We have the greatest people in the world in our military, but it has really become depleted and we are going to fix it and make it better, and hopefully never have to use it. But it's going to be there. We are going to take care of our vets and repeal and replace Obamacare.We're also going to unleash American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, clean coal.That means getting rid of job-killing EPA regulations that are unnecessary. So many unnecessary. We're going to put the miners right here in Colorado back to work. We're going to put them back to work.Who's a miner? Raise your hand. You, you don't look like a miner. A lot of miners. Get ready to go to work. Get ready to go to work. You want to go back to work? You're going to go back to work. Your jobs will come back under a Trump administration. Your incomes will go up under a Trump administration. Your taxes will go way, way down under a Trump administration.Your companies won't be leaving Colorado under a Trump administration.We're going to have a new government that serves the people. Hasn't done that in a long time.Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to run for president.You heard about the newly released FBI documents? They reveal just how corrupt she is and it is. Undersecretary of State Patrick Kennedy illegally pressured -- who really illegally pressured the FBI to unclassify emails from Hillary's illegal server. That server is a disaster.You know, I just ripped out an article out of the paper just today, where a four-star general -- one of the most highly respected people in the military -- was charged with something, and he has agreed to a devastating sentence. And it's very sad to see, and I spoke to General Kellogg and I spoke to General Flynn, who you know. They are here someplace. Where are they? Come here, generals. Come here. Where is General Kellogg?You guys are great. Great guys.Amazing. I just spoke to the generals. These are real generals too, these are real guys. I love having them on my plane, but when I'm on my plane with them I sort of feel like I'm number three. Does that make sense? You know, they're generals.But I will tell you, I just cut out the article -- major article from the Wall Street Journal -- and it talked about a certain general, a highly decorated man, a very respected man, and he just pled guilty to doing exactly what she did, except like two percent of what she did.General, do you want to mention it?I mean honestly, it's unbelievable.Thank you, fellas.Great guys, great guys. Great guys, but think of General Cartwright for doing three percent of what she did, and life is destroyed. The State Department was trying to cover up Hillary's crimes of sending classified information on the server our enemies could easily access.Now, think of what we just said about a four-star general, just happened. I just actually picked the article -- I said, is this something like what happened with her? They said, this is a tiny fraction of what she did. It is so -- it is so disgraceful. She shouldn't be allowed to run for the office of president.The FBI documents show that Patrick Kennedy made the request for altering classification as part of a quid pro quo.You know, we are wasting time. Do you think anything is going to be -- might as well -- in fact, today the story came out and they had it like a little story. Because almost as corrupt as Crooked Hillary Clinton is the media right back there.Clinton and her cronies have sacrificed your security, your family's safety and your country's safety as though it meant nothing at all to her. Remember also that Hillary lied under oath to Congress, saying she had never sent or received classified information on her insecure server, and pretended not to know what the letter C meant, confidential information that was classified, right.Hillary then told the FBI she couldn't remember 30 times, right? Thirty-nine. Thirty-nine times, and then in written testimony last week under oath she couldn't remember another 21 times. Bad memory. She's got a bad memory. What can you do?Take a look at the General Cartwright story. This elaborate criminal cover-up included Hillary's deleting and bleaching 33,000 emails. The disappearance of 13 phones, some of which were hammered, boom, boom. Hammered. Who hammered their phone when they got rid of it? Anybody here? This guy. We've got to watch him, check him.Two boxes of email evidence is now missing as of two weeks ago. Missing. Add the destruction of laptops. This is many times worse than Watergate. And we are going to put an end to it come November 8th.Now they say we are tied in Colorado. I don't think so, I'll be honest. I mean, something is going on here, something. You know, they say we are tied. Every place I go, we have thousands, and you can't honestly -- you don't know what's on the other side of this wall. You won't even believe it. But they say we are tied, I don't think we are tied.The other one says we are two up. One says we are four up. One said we were six or seven down. That was the one that they show on television. They don't show the other ones. These people, but they say -- let's say we are tied, then how come we have thousands and thousands of people, thousands and thousands. Sort of an amazing thing. Oh, and these people here, they are getting $1,500 to do that, $1,500.You see how professional they are? Look at the guy now, he's just walking out.So, yesterday there was a story that the DNC, Democratic National Committee, is sending protesters in here, paying them $1,500. Look at that guy, he's like a pro. They got him out, now he's just walking.You know, is disgusting. It just came out yesterday, and I thought so, but the way they got him, he walked out. By the time he got to the door it was all over, puts everything, and now he's off. Look at him. And you know what? It's all over the Internet. The mainstream media hardly wrote about it and they caught him yesterday. Not him. They pay $1,500 and they give iPhones to everybody if you go in and disrupt. This is what we're dealing with these people, these are bad people. And the press doesn't cover it.And now look, they are covering him being taken out, and they will say a protester, like he's this innocent little lamb.And then you wonder why our country is in trouble. Then you wonder why our country is in trouble. Take a look at what's happening now in Mosul. They give them four months warning. They were to get ISIS, they want to get the leaders. They announced four months ago, we are going in to get the leaders. The leaders are smart, they say, hey, they're coming in to get us, let's get the hell out of here. They're gone.And they are meeting resistance, on top of everything else. Boy, whatever happened. Do you remember the expression, the element of surprise? You get them and then you tell the public and they will be very happy to hear it a week later. These people are so just sad.Another series of leaked emails show top officials in the Clinton campaign scheming to take massive sums of money from registered foreign lobbyists. But don't hear the media talking about it. We all talk about it -- WikiLeaks proved. And by the way, they are not being covered, they want to cover fictitious stories about me, it's fiction. They want to cover -- they just want to cover fictitious stories on me.WikiLeaks has provided things that are unbelievable. The media, you have to remember, is an extension of the Hillary Clinton campaign.And without that she would be nowhere. The press has created a rigged system and poisoned the minds of the voters, many of the voters. Of course a lot of voters, their minds are just fine. They know exactly what's going on.I built an incredible company...I have built an incredible company. I'm fortunate to have a beautiful and great family -- loving family. And my temperament, it's -- hey, we have a winning temperament. We know how to win. We don't win any more, right?Our country, our country doesn't win anymore, folks. Look, when do we win? We can't win with our great military because our leaders won't let us, by the way. Just so you know. It's not the military. Our leaders won't let us. We don't win in the economy. Look at our jobs report from last week, it was a disaster. Our jobs report last week was catastrophic. And that's the last one before the election so maybe that should help.This is an election about the truth. It's going to be about the truth. I didn't need to do this, that I can tell you. A lot of people cannot handle the truth, but no matter what people may think of me, the one thing they know is that I am always going to tell you what's happening, what's happening with our country. I'm telling you the good and the bad, but it's going to start being the good.I mean, you can't believe anything you see. I don't even believe the polls. I see these polls, and they're not terrible. They're sort of good. And actually, if the people come out and vote -- they are very nervous. I have a feeling this is another Brexit. This is going to be interesting. They don't want to show you the good.If they take five polls of the same group, they will always show the bad one. But the bad ones fine, it's fine. You've got to get out and vote. I'll tell you what, we are going to have one of the greatest victories in political history if we get out and vote.And when Hillary develops the energy to go to events -- she's got very small crowd. If she came up here, as an example, if she came here, she would have, let's say, maybe the little group on the right- hand, but it wouldn't be them.I think the media is trying to discourage our people from getting out and voting, I do. It's a very crooked group of people. Without the media and all the other corrupt entities that have helped her along the way, honestly she'd be nothing, folks, she'd be nothing. Tomorrow night's going to be interesting.Now she's home sleeping and I'm working, so that's the way. The way it's going to be in the White House, too. She'd be sleeping, I'd be working.Even my worst critics agree the media has come after us like they have never, ever, ever come after anyone before, never. I mean, I'm like -- there's never been a hit or a pile-on, and even they admit it. They even say it.The failing New York Times -- and it is failing, it won't be in business, in my opinion, more than three or four more years. They said in an article -- in a major article -- let's face it, balance has been on vacation since Mr. Trump onto his golden Trump Tower escalator to announce his candidacy, so true. They admit it.And then they go on to say, we don't care. We don't care. We'll do whatever is necessary to defeat him and to defeat those people. That's what they want to do. They want to stop our agenda for change, but we won't let them. History is watching us now, waiting to see if we will rise to the moment. The moment is going to be November 8th, it's very simple.And we will. We've just begun to fight. They even want to try and rig the election at the polling booths, where so many cities are corrupt and voter fraud is all too common. And then they say, there's no voter fraud in our country. There's no voter fraud. No, no, there's no voter fraud.Take a look at St. Louis, take a look at Philadelphia, take a look at Chicago. And then I have even the Republicans saying, this is a wonderful -- look, look, if nothing else, people are going to be watching on November 8th. Watch Philadelphia, watch St. Louis, watch Chicago. Watch so many other places. But then do you ever notice they say there is no voter fraud.Now there's a voter fraud also with the media because they so poisoned the minds of the people by writing false stories. They are -- I have, actually, they are more crooked than Crooked Hillary, I really do. That's a lot.In 2014, the Washington Post -- that's another beauty -- published an article entitled "Could non-citizens decide the November election?" Guys, that's the Washington Post. The article found that 14 percent...They are having a good time. Were they friend or foe?The article found that 14 percent of non-citizens were registered to vote, and it also found non-citizen voting may have given Democrats the pivotal 60th vote needed to pass horrible Obamacare.Now, just think of that for a second. And then you heard like 1.8 million people are dead or shouldn't be on the lists, right? You've got dead people voting. How did that happen? I don't know. And I listen to all of these politicians saying the system is wonderful. Gotta fix the system. The system is also rigged by the donors giving hundreds of millions of dollars to Hillary Clinton's campaign. The reason Crooked Hillary pushes for NAFTA or the Transpacific Partnership and for completely open borders is because her international donors control her every single move.If we let the Clinton cartel run this government, history will record that 2017 was a year America lost its independence. That's true, that's true. It will not happen on our watch, OK?It's like when they look back at us at this time, you know, in history, we will not be the ones that they talk about the replacement of the great Trojan horse, right? You understand that. We're not going to be the fools that allow that to happen. And I say it again, when it comes to Washington, D.C., it is time to drain the damn swamp.That's why I'm proposing a package of ethics reforms to make our government honest once again. First, I'm going to institute a five- year ban on all executive branch officials lobbying the government after they leave government service. They become rich, they become rich.Second, I going to ask Congress to institute its own five-year ban on lobbying by former members of Congress and their staffs. They become rich. I mean, these staffs become rich.Third, I'm going to expand the definition of lobbyist, so we close all loopholes that former government officials use by labeling themselves consultants and advisers, when we all know they are just lobbyists, right? Lobbyists. Fourth, I'm going to issue a lifetime ban against senior executive branch officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government, right?And fifth, I'm going to ask Congress to pass a campaign-finance reform that stops registered foreign lobbyists from raising money in American elections, right?There's another major announcement I'm making today as part of our pledge to drain the swamp. If I'm elected president, I will push for a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.I am proposing a term limit of six years for members of the House and 12 years for members of the Senate.Decades of political failure and special interest collusion must and will finally come to an end. It's time to sweep the corruption out of Washington. That is why I will also ask for a ban on both White House and congressional officials fund-raising during working hours. They are always fund-raising. And I've been on the other side, I've been on the other side. I've given a lot of money over the years and they always come up during the day. I say, when you people have time to work? I don't have time to work. After 6 o'clock. When you're working for the taxpayer, you should be doing just that.Not only will we end government corruption but we will also end the crippling economic stagnation that we are in.My plans for the economy can be summed up in three very beautiful words. You know what they are? Jobs, jobs, jobs.At the center of my historic jobs plan will be fixing our terrible trade deals, the worst deals that anybody has ever made economically in trade. Forty-seven million Americans are in poverty, and 45 million Americans are right now in this country on food stamps. Are they getting $1,500? Can you believe it? No can you believe it? And the press doesn't want to write the story. They get paid to do this.Can you believe they get paid for doing this by the Democratic National Committee? Maybe I will do it a couple of times. It's good money, I'll get a nice new phone. Unbelievable. I'm sure their parents are very proud of them. Two people.So, we have nearly an $800 billion annual trade deficit in goods with the world. That's in trade. We lost $800 billion, we have a trade deficit. And the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression, and you people know it better than anybody right here. The worst since the Great Depression.Economic growth is at a total standstill and workers are earning less today than they were almost 20 years ago. Colorado has lost one in seven manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton's NAFTA, a deal supported very strongly by Hillary Clinton, who, by the way, has been doing this stuff for 30 years. She's done a pretty rotten job, wouldn't you think.We lost -- listen to this -- 70,000 factories since China's entry into the World Trade Organization. China is gaining a lot of factories, probably a lot more than that. Another Bill and Hillary- backed deal.We are also living through the greatest jobs theft in American history, probably in the history of the world. They say actually probably in the history of the world. It's a jobs theft because our politicians are stupid. They are stupid people. And if they are not stupid, they are under the control of the special interests and donors. So, whether it is stupid or corrupt, it doesn't matter. The result is the same.A Trump administration is going to renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to foreign cheating. And you know what they are doing with money supply, you know what they are doing with devaluation. And stop the jobs from leaving our country.As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we are going to lower our business taxes from 35 percent to 15 percent, we're the highest tax in the nation -- we are the highest taxed in the world, and we are going to be among the lower taxed in the world. We are the highest taxed nation in the world. We are going to be among the lower taxed. Not quite the lowest, but we're getting there.We're also going to fix our inner cities, which have been failed and it's disgraceful what Democrats have done to destroy our inner cities. Forty-five percent of African-American children, under the age of six, are living in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of African American youth are not working. Almost 3,500 people have been shot in the city of Chicago -- listen to this -- since January 1st. It's like a war zone.People are getting shot walking to the store. The education is terrible and there are no jobs. The national murder rate has experienced the largest single-year increase in 45 years. To those African-Americans suffering, and to those Latinos suffering, I say, what do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump. I'm going to fix it.I'm gonna fix it. I will fight harder for you than anyone has ever fought for you before. We will be a rich nation again. We will be able to do things that we want to do. Right now we owe $20 trillion, doubled since Obama came to office.And he should stop campaigning for Crooked Hillary, and he ought to get out and work on jobs and work on the border. Boy, oh boy, he's got a lot of work. Fortunately, he doesn't have much time left.But to be a rich country we must also be a safe country. National security begins at the border. Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, Crooked Hillary Clinton said her dream is for open trade -- there go your jobs -- and open borders -- there goes your country. That's what it is. Your jobs, your country.By open trade she means letting foreign countries cheat us out of millions of jobs and trillions in wealth. By open borders she means totally unlimited immigration. Come on in, folks. Come on in.Hillary's plan includes an open border with the Middle East, meaning generations of radicalism and terrorism spreading and growing within our shores and in your own community.Just today an Iraqi refugee approved for entry by Hillary Clinton's State Department pled guilty to joining ISIS. He entered as a refugee in November 2009, then was approved for a green card in 2011. It's one of hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of examples of the United States voluntarily, right, voluntarily admitting people from the world's most dangerous places, who turn out to be terrorists. And by the way, we won't go over the stats and we won't go over individual cases, but the crime is unbelievable, vicious and violent.So, let me say this as clearly as I can. If I am elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.That's the Trojan horse, folks. That's the Trojan horse. We will also stop the crisis of illegal immigration. A Trump administration will secure our borders and protect our jobs, including jobs for millions of African-American and Latino workers. And yes, we will build a wall.We're going to build the wall, don't worry, and Mexico is going to pay for the wall. They just don't know it yet.We have the first-ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers, great people. ICE just two weeks ago. As secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released because their home countries refused to take them. They were too violent. They were too violent, so we took them back. Who would do this? Who would do this?You know who would do this? A weak and pathetic politician would do this. The ICE officer described Hillary's proposal as the most radical immigration proposal in United States history. Here is a summary of what she wants to do, support sanctuary cities.Social Security, Medicare and lifetime welfare for all illegal immigrants by making them citizens.Obamacare, which will die anyway, for illegal immigrants. No -- and this is crazy, no deportation of visa overstays. Expanding catch-and-release on the border. Expanding President Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty, including instant work permits for millions of illegal workers. There go your jobs.Freeing even more criminal aliens by expanding Obama's non- enforcement directive. And here is the topper of all, as you know, President Obama has let thousands and thousands of people come in from Syria. She wants to have a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into this country.Either we win this election or we lose the country. This is the last time we've got a shot, folks. It's not going to happen after that. The numbers aren't there, the numbers aren't there. This is the last time. I hope you get up on November 8th or you send in those early ballots, but I hope you get up on November 8th and get out and get every person you know out to vote.Under a Trump administration, it's going to be again America First, remember that.Finally, here are some of the amazing things we are going to do for our country, starting in 2017. We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, a big one.We will eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation where you folks are being killed up here.We are going to unleash job-creating American energy, which is a big factor here.We are going to defend religious liberty. We're going to provide school choice to every low income child in America and we are going to end Common Core education.We are going to rebuild our depleted military, and we are going to take care of our great, great veterans, it's time.We are going to support the men and women of law enforcement.We will save our Second Amendment, which is totally under siege.And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.You have 21 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country, for your family, for yourselves come true. Our campaign is powered by our love for this country and our love for our fellow citizens. We're going to have a unified country.It's a campaign about rejecting the cynicism and elitism of our failed political establishment. On November 8th we are going to win.I'm going to fight for every citizen, of every background, from every stretch of this nation. I'm going to fight for every child living in poverty. I'm going to fight for every mom and for every dad who's lost a child to illegal immigration and drugs and gang violence is deplorable -- to use her horrible term in referring to certain friends of mine.And irredeemable. That's even worse. That means you have no chance. I'm going to fight for every community whose jobs and dreams have been ripped out and shipped to other countries, lot of jobs. I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and the special interests.And I am going to fight to bring Americans together for the first time in a long time.Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag, right?In 10 years, 20 years, 30 years, 40 years, you're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life and you're going to be very, very proud. This is a movement that we have going like they have never seen before. They're trying everything they can to stop it.They're doing everything they can to stop it. They are fighting, the press is fighting, Crooked Hillary is fighting. They're doing everything they can. They're lying, they're cheating, they're stealing. They're doing everything -- these people right back here -- everything they can to stop it. But I don't think they're going to stop it. I don't think they're going to stop it.You're going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote that you've ever cast, for anyone, at any time.We're going to have a real government, of, by and for the people for the first time in a long time.You are going to be once again so proud of your country, and hopefully you will be very, very proud of your president.I promise you that we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.Thank you. Thank you. And thank you to the fire marshal. They've got a lot of people outside. But they've got a lot in, so I appreciate it. So thank you very much.Thank you.In 19 days, we are going to win the state of Ohio and we are going to win the White House.And I worked in Ohio and I love Ohio. I can tell you.Early voting is underway. So make sure you mail in your ballot. And you have to do it quickly and in person. But on November 8th, get there, we're going to do something that has never been done before in this country. Believe me.Ladies and gentleman, I want to make a major announcement today. I would like to promise and pledge to all of my voters and supporters, and to all of the people of the United States that I will totally accept the results of this great and historic Presidential election, if I win.All right. Seriously, the debate last night was amazing. And everybody said, I won.Including every single online poll, and some had it at 90 and close to 90 percent, so that's pretty cool.The question of voter fraud came up during the debate. We want fairness in the election. This is having nothing to do with me. But having to do with the future of our country. We have to have fairness. John Podesta, Hillary Clinton's campaign chairman, was quoted in WikiLeaks as saying, illegal immigrants could vote as long as they have their drivers license.What I'm saying is don't be naive folks. Don't be naive. One of the big issues that came up last night, was the fact that the Clinton campaign has paid people to disrupt, violently our rallies, and to insight absolute total bedlam.It's so bad, so bad. And you know, I have had occasions where we had rallies and it was so incredibly violent. I said, what's going on over here? These were paid people by the Clinton campaign and it just came out.And I give a lot of credit to the people that brought this out. Believe me. This is criminal behavior that violates centuries of tradition of peaceful, democratic elections. A campaign like Clinton's that will insight violence, is truly a campaign that will do anything to win. And the candidate like Crooked Hillary Clinton, who will lie to Congress, lie to the FBI, destroy 33,000 emails, put her office up for sale and put our confidential information in the reach of our enemies, is a candidate who is truly capable of anything, including voter fraud.In addition, it was just learned that Hillary Clinton was given the exact questions to a previous debate, word for word, by Donna Brazile who is now under tremendous pressure to resign from the DNC, as she should be. She should resign. How can a woman do that? That is cheating at the highest level. But I ask you, why shouldn't Hillary Clinton resign from the race? She was given -- think of it -- she was given these questions. She used these questions, studied the questions, got the perfect answer for the questions, and never said that she did something that was totally wrong and inappropriate. Hence the name Crooked Hillary.Years ago there was a show called "The $64,000 Question." A contestant got the questions in advance, and his life was ruined. They found out about it. Remember? Anybody remember his name? Come on. Van Doren, very good. You look younger than that. Charles Van Doren. Charles Van Doren was his name. He got the questions and his life was ruined. But Hillary, Hillary Clinton, got the question -- think of it. Forget Donna Brazile. She should resign.She looked like such a fool last night on television, trying to say, well, she didn't know what was going on. She had no idea. She said, get me out of here. She got the questions, she got the questions. She gave them to Hillary Clinton. Hillary Clinton didn't say, I'd like to announce that a mistake was made and I can't take these questions. I mean, look, how many questions are there, right? Can you imagine if I got the questions? They would call for the reestablishment of the electric chair. Do you agree with that? Right?She got the questions, and she didn't report it. She went out there knowing the questions, she didn't report it. That is very dishonest. She's a very dishonest person. This is even bigger because we are going for the presidency of the United States, so this is very important. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt and dishonest person ever to seek the office of the presidency.So it's in that context that I was asked a question about whether I would agree in advance to concede the results on election night, if for some reason we should lose -- which we're not going to lose.And that was sort of an unprecedented question. If Al Gore or George Bush had agreed three weeks before the election to concede the results, and waived their right to a legal challenge or a recount, then there would be no Supreme Court case and no Gore -- Gore v. Bush or Bush v. Gore, and there have been numerous other cases. In effect, I'm being asked to waive centuries of legal precedent designed to protect the voters.But listen to this, according to Pew, highly respected, there are 24 million voter registrations in the United States that are either invalid or significantly inaccurate. OK. I think the people in this room understand it more than our leaders.Although maybe our leaders understand more than we think they understand. Listen to this. 1.8 million people are dead, but they're registered to vote, some of whom vote even though they're dead. Which is really a hard thing to do, but it's easy if fraud is involved, right?So you got 1.8 million people who are dead who are registered to vote, and some of them vote. One was a Republican and, after death, became a Democrat.It's true, 2.8 million people are registered in more than one state, so you've got 2.8 million people, they can vote in Ohio and someplace else. And 14 percent of non-citizens are registered to vote. And then I hear we have such a beautiful, everything's so wonderful, you understand where I'm coming from I think, right? Now I am not a politician so I can say it like it is, but those are terrible -- those are terrible and frightening statistics.America is a constitutional republic with a system of laws. These laws are triggered in the case of fraud or in the event of a recount where it's needed. Of course I would accept a clear election result, but I would also reserve my right to contest or file a legal challenge in the case of a questionable result, right?And always I will follow and abide by all of the rules and traditions of all of the many candidates who have come before me, always. Bottom line, we're going to win, we're going to win. We're going to win so bad.We're going to win so bad. November 8th, we're going to win. Together, we are going to deliver real change that puts again, America First. It's going to be America First.Thank you. Boy, do you people have spirit, so early.Beautiful, it's a beautiful thing to see. All over the country, it's the same. The spirit, it's a movement like they've never seen. The dishonest media, they've never seen anything like it. They've never seen it. They've never seen anything like it.They've never seen anything like it. We are going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals and illegal immigration. Stop the massive inflow of refugees. Reduce surging crime, cut taxes and regulation, unleash job producing energy, American energy.Rebuild our military and take care of our vets. Now, our vets.Our great veterans have not been taken care of the way they should be taken care of, that I can tell you. Our vets are treated often times not as well as illegal immigrants and we're going to change that very fast. Our vets are going to be treated properly and with great respect. That's not happening now.And we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare.Just in case you haven't noticed, rates are going up, 60, 70, 80 percent. Next year's going to be worse. It's a catastrophe and it's dying anyway but we're going to repeal it, replace it, you're going to have great health care at a fraction of the cost, OK?Your jobs will come back under a Trump administration. Your jobs have fled. Your incomes will go up under a Trump administration, your taxes will go way down under a Trump administration and Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes, she's going to raise your taxes. Your companies won't be leaving Ohio under a Trump administration.Right now our economy isn't growing practically at all. Last quarter it was only around one percent GDP. People have hardly ever heard of numbers like that. If in China it goes to seven or eight percent, it's like considered a national catastrophe. Here, we're one percent, isn't everything wonderful? Everything's not wonderful. And if it was wonderful, we wouldn't have packed auditoriums no matter where we go, believe me.I'm going to get us to four percent growth and maybe more and create 25 million jobs for our country over the next 10 years.Many workers are earning less today than they were 18 years ago. They're working harder, they're working longer, but they're making less and in some cases, they're working two and three jobs, but still taking home less money. It's ridiculous.They're getting older. They're working harder, and so am I. I'm working harder and I'm getting older, too. It's harder, believe me. I'm working harder.Companies like Carrier are firing their workers and moving to Mexico. Ford is moving all of their small car production to Mexico. When I'm president, if a company wants to fire their workers and leave for Mexico or other countries, then we will charge them a 35 percent tax when they want to ship their products back into the United States.And they won't leave, believe me. Those companies will not leave. If we do that, they will not leave. And you know what? If they do, that'll be fine. We'll make a lot of money, but they're not going to be leaving.And our politicians should have told you this years ago. You would have stopped this horrible onslaught of companies leaving. But two things: either they're not very smart or they are smart, but they're controlled by their donors and special interests. OK? So either way, the people lose.Hillary Clinton has raised countless millions of dollars from big donors who want to ship our jobs to other countries. You know that. You saw that last night. Remember? I said "open border," and she -- open border, I don't want open border -- but she turned out she wanted open borders.Boy, that WikiLeaks has done a job on her, hasn't it?And you take a look. She really has a hatred almost for Catholics. She's got a hatred for evangelicals. I mean, what they said about Catholics and evangelicals and so many other things, so many other things.And actually, the one I liked was John Podesta saying that -- who is her campaign chairman -- saying that Hillary Clinton has bad instincts. She's got bad instincts. I don't want somebody with bad instincts as our president. I'll tell you, if I were Hillary, I'd fire that guy. He's said so many bad things.Well, Bill, said about Obamacare, right? Two weeks ago, he said, "This is the craziest thing I've ever seen." He was right. He suffered that evening, right? He suffered.But this is why I'm proposing a package of ethics reforms to make our government honest once again. It's time to drain the swamp of corruption in Washington, D.C. and we're going to do it.Those reforms include the following: a five-year ban on executive branch and congressional officials lobbying the government after they leave government service. They're making a fortune. Not going to happen. That's why they make all these sweetheart deals.A lifetime ban on former executive branch officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. A ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections. I don't want that. You don't want that. Nobody wants that. And you wonder why do we make all these dumb deals and these horrible deals.Friends of mine come up, "How could they have made such a stupid deal? They can't be." I said, "They are actually smart, but you have to understand, this is the way the system works."Additionally, I'm going to push for a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.It's about time. Not only will be end government corruption, but we will end economic stagnation. My plan for the economy can be summed up in three very beautiful words: jobs, jobs, jobs.At the center of what will be a historic jobs plan will be fixing our terrible trade deals. And they are terrible: 47 million Americans are in poverty and 45 million Americans are right now on food stamps. We have nearly $800 billion annual trade deficit in goods with the world, and the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression.You know, we hear about a recovery. It's the worst since the Great Depression. Hard to believe. Ohio has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. And China's entrance into the World Trade Organization, two deals done by Bill and backed strongly by Crooked Hillary. America has lost -- listen to this -- 70,000 factories since China joined the WTO. And by the way, try doing business over in China. Not easy, folks, not easy.We're living through the biggest job theft in the history of the world. They're stealing our jobs, they're stealing our companies, they're taking our money. We have drugs, we have debt, we have empty factories. That's going to end. That's going to end, so easy.A Trump Administration is going to renegotiate NAFTA. The worst ever, probably the worst trade deal ever signed in history. Stand up to foreign cheating and currency manipulation. And stop the jobs from leaving our country. We're going to stop it. It won't be hard, won't be hard.In order to help bring our jobs back to Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, all across this great nation. I'm going to undertake a major reorganization of our bureaucracy, which we have to do.Have to do. American trade policy is currently mismanaged by dozens of competing bureaucracies spread across the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, State, Treasury, all of these departments, so many departments. Get that mosquito out of here. I get a little nervous with mosquitoes now a days folks. But up here you haven't been hit, yet. Right? That's all we need is a nice mosquito bite.Thank you. I love you too. Mosquito bite right smack in the middle of the nose. No, we don't want it. In my Administration, all trade policy making will be consolidated into one very important office.We're going to call it, the American desk. And it will be located inside the Department of Commerce. And I'll be checking with those people. Because we're not going to lose our companies anymore. It's so complicated. So many different departments have to get involve, and by the time they get involved, they're gone. They've signed with all of these other countries. The mission of the American desk will be to protect the economic interests of the American worker, and the national interests of the United States. Because they're hurting our national interests.We owe $20 trillion right now. Doubled under Obama. And we haven't done anything. Our roads are bad. Our airports are bad. Our schools are bad. Everything is bad. They're falling down. So we have all this debt and we haven't started yet. Because we have to fix the infrastructure of our country. It's going to be America First, believe me.As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we're going to lower our business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent.We're also going to rebuild our inner cities. African-Americans and Hispanics living in the inner cities are suffering. The violence is unbearable and unbelievable. You walk to the store with your child and you get shot. There's no education. There are no jobs. And there's practically no safety. Nearly 3,500 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year, since January 1st. 3,500 people. That's worse than what you're reading about over in the Middle East in many cases.Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. And more than 60 percent in Baltimore, and it's getting worse. To the African- American and Hispanic communities who are suffering, I say, what do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump. I'm going to fix the inner cities. I'm going to fix the inner cities.What do you have to lose? Seriously. And I mean it. The inner cities are so bad. They've been run so badly by Democrats for decades and decades and decades. Sometimes more than 100 years unbroken. And they get the votes and they go on their way and they don't do a thing. So, I hope the African-Americans, I hope the Hispanics, I hope they're going to vote for Trump. We're going to do something about it. Believe me. Big league.We will be a rich nation once again. But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. And national security begins at the border. Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said her dream is for totally open trade and open borders. You saw that last night when she tried to lie about it, right?She tried to lie about it and she came up with something, she was talking about energy. She tried to lie about it. Just like she lied about other things, she tried to lie last night. Remember she said TPP, which by the way, is a disaster. It will be a disaster for Ohio. They have no guards, no safeguards. They don't talk about currency manipulation in the agreement. It's thousands of pages long, it's a disaster for Ohio and Pennsylvania and any place that makes anything, it's bad.Hillary's plan includes an open border with the Middle East. Meaning generations of radicalism and terrorism spreading and growing within our shores. Just last week, an Iraqi refugee approved for entry by Hillary Clinton's State Department pled guilty to joining ISIS. There are many of them. So let me state this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected president of the United States, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.We've got enough problems, don't you think? Don't you think we have enough? That'll end up being the great Trojan horse that they'll read about in 200 years like you read about Trojan horse current. That will be -- and we don't want to be a part of that history. We will also stop the crisis of illegal immigration. A Trump administration will secure and defend our borders.And yes, we will build the wall. We need it.And Mexico will pay for the wall. We have the first ever endorsement from our ICE and border patrol officers, first time they've ever endorsed a candidate for president.Every year countless American lives are lost to sanctuary cities. My opponent strongly supports sanctuary cities, I don't think she knows why. Like the ones that got Kate Steinle killed by a five-time deported criminal illegal immigrant. If I'm elected president, I'm going to cut off federal funding to sanctuary cities.And quickly. And we are going to make sure that our immigration authorities do the job that they're supposed to be doing. And these, in many cases, are great people that are not allowed to do the job. I can tell you in the case of the border patrol and the ICE agents, these are great American people that frankly, by backing me, they're going to be working much harder. They don't have to stand back. You know the expression, it's called "stand back." People just walk right into our country.We are going to save American lives. Either we win this election or we are going to lose this country. To sum up, here are some of the amazing things we're going to be doing for our country starting in 2017. We are going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan.We will eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation which affects so many workers.We will defend our religious liberty.We will provide school choice to every low-income child in America and we are going to end Common Core, education is going to be brought locally.We will totally support the men and women of law enforcement.We talked about this last night at the debate, we will save the Second Amendment, which right now is under siege.And I will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.You have 19 days to make every dream you ever dreamed, for your children, for your family, for your country, come true.Thank you. God bless you. Thank you.Thank you.Our campaign is powered by our love for this country and our love for our fellow citizens. And is there any better place to be than a Trump rally?Or any safer place too? It's a campaign about rejecting the cynicism and elitism of our failed political establishment, which is doing great harm to everybody, to us.I am going to fight for every citizen of every background, from every stretch of this nation. I'm going to fight for every child living in poverty. I'm going to fight for every mom who lost her child to illegal immigration and drugs and gang violence.I'm going to fight for every community whose jobs and factories have been ripped out of our states, like Ohio and Pennsylvania, and Florida, and so many others.You take a look at New England, you take a look at what's happened. You take a look at New York State, upstate New York, and you see what's going on. We will never, ever, ever let that happen again. We're going to bring them back. I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and the special interests.And I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.In 10 years, in 20 years, in 30 years, you're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. We've had a good time. But important things are happening. You're going to remember this day. This is a movement like nobody has seen in this country before. You're going to look back at this election and say, this is by far the most important vote that I've ever cast for anyone at any time.You're going to be so proud of your country again and, hopefully, you'll be very, very proud of your president, because he will do a great job.And when we win, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again, and we will America great again.Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Ohio. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you.I don't think they're telling the truth, because when I look at all of the women at our rallies, I think we're gonna do very well with women for Trump. Thank you.In 18 days we're going to win the state of North Carolina and we are going to win back the White House.Our opponents have spent more money than ever before in history on this campaign. They've raised it from special interests and yet, we are leading in three recent polls that just came out over the last day.Rasmussen, Los Angeles Times, and Investor's Business Daily, we're leading. And by the way, the last one as they tell me, the most accurate poll of the last cycle. So that's a good sign. That's a good sign. Because I honestly -- I believe we're going to win. This is what's going to happen.We have two great Congressmen in the group, and they told me what's going on in their districts. It's unbelievable. Their areas unbelievable. Jimmy Duncan of Tennessee is here someplace. Where's Jimmy Duncan? Jimmy. Incredible guy. And he said, you won't believe what's happening in Tennessee. And Mark Meadows. Did you ever hear of Mark Meadows?And much more importantly, his wife. The real leader in the family, right? Thank you Mark. Thank you for being here. Thank you both very much.These are great people, but they're just telling me the level of excitement and the people coming out -- I think we're going to have -- beyond the Brexit -- I think we're going beyond Brexit. You know about Brexit.I think we're gonna have it.Early voting is underway so make sure you send in your ballot. We cannot take a chance of blowing it. We can not take a chance. We have something, we're so close, it's a movement like they've never seen in this country before, never, ever seen. Don't blow it on November 8th.Together we're going to deliver real change that puts America First. We're going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, reduce surging crime, cut taxes and regulations -- so important...And Hillary is going to raise your taxes big league, you've seen that.We're going to unleash job-producing American energy, rebuild our military and take care of our veterans who have not been taken care of.And of course, one of the true staples to my campaign, and I say to our campaign, repeal and replace Obamacare.Your jobs will come back under a Trump administration. Your incomes will go up under a Trump administration. Your taxes will go way, way down under a Trump administration.Your companies won't be leaving North Carolina under a Trump administration. There will be consequences for that. We will be strong and a really strong and powerful nation again. Our military is so depleted. We're gonna build it up. America has grown weak, and so weak that the Philippines have broken with decades of pro-American foreign policy, to instead leave for the orbit of China and Russia. You saw that yesterday. The hatred -- I mean, why is Obama campaigning. He ought to be out working. He ought to be out...I mean, I'm gonna send the Congressmen back to Washington with that message. But we'll send the real message on November 8th. Right? We'll send the real message on November 8th.But every time I look at him he's campaigning. You see the Philippines. The heads of the Philippines -- they're so angry. He leaves for China, he's now negotiating with China. We've been in the Philippines practically forever. A very important strategic ally. And what happens? China and Russia are probably gonna take it, and I see him out there campaigning for Crooked Hillary. Come on, come on. Give me a break.Strength will also require growth. Right now our economy isn't growing at all. We had only around one percent growth last quarter. GDP a disaster. You know, when China has one percent it's over, they don't have one percent. They have seven percent, that's considered terrible. India has eight percent, that's considered bad for them. They don't like it. We have one percent and everything's supposed to be fine. But we're going down. If Hillary gets in she's gonna raise your taxes and the one percent is going to be negative and that's going to be almost unheard of, but that's gonna happen. I made a lot of predictions. If that happens, and if she gets in, you're gonna have such negative growth you will have problems like you've never had before, and our companies and our jobs will flee, believe me.I'm going to get us to 4 percent growth and create 25 million jobs over a 10-year period.Many workers are earning less today than they were 18 years ago. They're working harder and longer and they're making less. Some of them are working two jobs and even three jobs but still taking home less pay than they were taking home 18 and 20 years ago.But I'm working harder too, folks. I'm working harder, there's no doubt about it. I've got three stops today. We've got three of these today. We've got three.You know, I've got three, on occasion I have four, I think I have one rest day where I have two -- but these are massive rallies and we're gonna do this for another 19 days. Right up until the actual vote of November 8th, and then I don't know what kind of shape I'm in but I'll be happy and at least I will have known, win, lose or draw, and I'm almost sure if the people come out we're gonna win.But I will be, I will be happy with myself because I always say, I don't want to think back, "If only I did one more rally I would have won North Carolina by 500 votes instead of losing it by 200 votes." Right? If only I did. So I never, ever want to look back, I never want to say that about myself.We have to work, you have to get everybody you know out there. Companies like Carrier are firing their workers and moving to Mexico. Ford is moving all of its small car production, announced two weeks ago, to Mexico. That's on top of a $2.5 million plant that they already built.When I'm president, if companies want to fire their workers and leave for Mexico or other parts of the world, there will be a tax of 35 percent for any product they want to ship in to this country...... and you know what's gonna happen? Because I'm a free trader. A lot of people don't believe that. I'm a free trader. But our politicians have made such horrible trade deals that they're killing our workers, they're killing our companies and our companies are being forced to move. Including the fact that taxes are so high.There will be consequences. And we're not gonna lose a company in North Carolina, have them go to Mexico or someplace else, make their products, sell it back in here -- which we will have a very strong border -- and there are no consequences.And I'll tell you what's gonna happen when we do this. For years our government has tried to stop our companies from leaving. Guess what's gonna happen? They're not gonna leave anymore. Because all of a sudden it won't work. If they do at least we're gonna make a lot of money when they ship their products across the border. OK?The politicians -- you've never even heard of this. You've heard it from me over the last six months. For me it was so simple. You want to move, good luck. Enjoy the heat. But let me tell you. When you make your air conditioner, you make your car, you do this, you're gonna leave all those people unemployed -- there are consequences. You're gonna pay a tariff or a tax. Hillary Clinton has raised countless millions of dollars and they're not leaving -- from big donors who want to ship our jobs to other countries, including millions of dollars from corporations and countries pushing for the next NAFTA. The next horrible trade deal, it's called the Transpacific Partnership. Don't let it happen, that will be the rest of your jobs will be gone.The rest of your jobs. That's how our system is corrupt and broken. We're going to take on big donors. We're going to take on big business and big media. That have enriched themselves at your expense. And I didn't need to do this folks. And I was part of the other side for a long time. I understand the game as well as anybody -- as well as anybody. But I saw the game, and I saw it first hand, and this country has been great to me. I love this country. And I said, our country will not survive if we continue to play that game.So this is always a tough thing to do, but I'm doing it. And I am so invigorated by the kind of reception. Look at this, to the corners of the room.Make America great again. That's what we're going to do. It's all about making America great again. We're going to do it. And I understand it. I understand it from both sides, believe me. And I think you know that.Thank you.The media is so corrupt that Hillary was given the exact questions to a previous debate. You remember this? Right? Just recently. Word for word, given the questions. Here are the questions. Here are the questions.Nobody gave me the questions. Now I don't know what I do. Would I turn the people in? Or would I take the questions? She was given the question. I think I'd turn them in, I think I'd say, wait a minute, what's going on over here? I want to know was she given the question to my debate. But it doesn't matter because we won. So...Based on everything we won. I hope, that especially the last -- I think the first one, you know, was fine. I thought it was good. I mean, I never did this stuff before in all fairness. But I think we did well, I think it was good. They gave me this great commission on public, on presidential debates. They're wonderful, except they gave me a broken mic. But that's OK. I'm screaming into the mic all night. But I think the first one was fine. And I think we won easily the second one. And the third one was our best. Right? Third one?But she was given the questions to a debate by Donna Brazile, who is now under pressure to resign. She should be, she should resign. But I ask you, why didn't Hillary say I can't do this? I can't do this. I can't take -- I can't take these questions. Nobody from the media is asking that question. Why is it, they're putting a lot of pressure on Donna Brazile, she was on television the other night. It was brutal. They're putting a lot of pressure on her. But tell me, she handed the questions to Hillary. Hillary read the questions, figured out the answers, put whatever she had to do. And then, why didn't she say I'm not allowed to do this?Years ago, years ago, there was a show called "The $64,000 Question." Does anybody remember? Don't say it. Because it's old. Really? A contestant, go ahead, Charles, go ahead, what? Correct. How do you know it? Look how young this guy is. A contestant got the questions in advance, prior to the show. And his life was ruined.But Hillary got the questions in advance and the press doesn't even bring it up. Can you imagine if I got the questions in advance and they found out?Can you imagine if I got the questions and they found out? They would re-invent a much more sinister form of the electric chair, is that right? Yes. Yes. But I have to ask the press to find out why aren't they asking Hillary why she didn't turn in the people that gave her the answers. And those questions.But this is even bigger than what we're talking about, because we're playing for the presidency of the United States. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt politician ever to seek the office of the presidency.Let's do this. Let's do this. November 8th, let's win. Let's win.Let's win. We win, we have lots of options. But we got to win. What a waste of time if we don't pull this off. You know these guys have said, "It doesn't matter if you win or lose, there's never been a movement like this in the history of this country."I say it matters to me whether we win or lose ---- so I'll have over $100 million of my own money in this campaign. So if I lose, if I lose, I will consider this -- and the nice part about saying that, and I only tell you that because that means I'm not taking all of this money from all of these people that Hillary Clinton's taking money --And you know her and her husband made $250 million. I said during the second debate, I said, "So why aren't you putting $5 million, $10 million, $15 million, $25 million -- I'm putting in over a hundred, why aren't you putting in $10 million into your own campaign.They're not putting anything.And we're fighting this juggernaut because they have billions of dollars they've raised. And we're fighting -- I turned on the other day, I was in Florida, and I was in Pennsylvania -- I turned on the television. It was ad after ad after ad.And I'm saying to myself, "I think they said in Florida the number of ads gonna be 50 to one, and we're tied in Florida and I think we're gonna win Florida."But the ads are phony ads, they're untrue, mostly untrue. There's a little truth in there, but mostly. And remember when you're watching television you see one of the thousands and thousands of ads, just remember put Wall Street on top. It's Wall Street. That's who paid for it or largely paid for it. Now from WikiLeaks we just learned she tried to get $12 million from the King of Morocco, for an appearance. More pay for play.That's why I'm proposing a path of ethics reforms to make our government honest once again.It's time to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C.Those reforms include the following. A five-year ban on White House and Congressional officials becoming lobbyists after they leave government service.A lifetime ban on White House officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. Thank you.A complete ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections.Additionally I am going to push for a Constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.Not only will we end government corruption but we will end economic stagnation. So important. Our country is doing poorly. My plan for the economy can be summed up in three great, beautiful, powerful words -- jobs, jobs, jobs. They've been taken away from us.At the center of my jobs plan will be fixing our terrible trade deals. They are terrible. They are the most incompetent deals ever made. By the way, NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton. Thank you very much, President Clinton.It's been a one-way highway into Mexico for our jobs, our cash. We get the drugs, they get the jobs and the cash, right? Forty-seven million Americans are living in poverty and 45 million Americans are right now, in this country, on food stamps. We have nearly an $800 billion annual trade deficit in goods with the world and the worst so- called recovery since the Great Depression.North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. Half. You've lost half of your manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. A deal signed by Bill Clinton and strongly supported by Hillary Clinton.Listen to this. We've lost -- and I always say, it sounded like a typographical error. It's not -- I thought it would be 700, 7,000 -- we've lost 70,000 factories since China's entry into the World Trade Organization. Another Bill and Hillary backed deal.We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Nobody's ever lost jobs like this. The deal that she made with South Korea was gonna bring us 100,000 jobs. No. It's brought them 100,000 jobs. We've lost jobs. We don't win anymore. By the way, to get jobs. We don't win on anything anymore.We attack a city -- Mosul. We attack Mosul. I've been reading about the attack for four months. The reason they want to attack it, a primary reason, is to take the leaders of ISIS out because that's where they think they are. And I say, whatever happened to a surprise attack?And I said to myself, "How are you going to get these people " -- these are tough, smart people. What you do is you do a sneak attack or a surprise attack, right? Right?We're too predictable. "We will attack Mosul. And three months from now, we are going to get their leaders, because we believe that that's where they're staying. We believe " -- here's Obama -- "we believe they are in Mosul, so in three or four months, let's see " -- he does -- "Three or four months, we will be attacking Mosul, because we want to get the leaders of ISIS."OK.Well, in the meantime, the following day, they're out of there. They're spread all over the place.In the meantime, have you seen what's gone on? Much tougher than we thought. Because now they're dug in, they're ready. And it's much, much tougher than we thought.General Douglas MacArthur, General George Patton, who was too mean and too tough. Today he couldn't make it in the armed forces, because they'd say he's not politically correct. He had a very foul mouth. He used bad words. But his people loved him. And his people would die for him. But he had a foul mouth. But he won. He would win.Can you imagine him saying, "We're going to be attacking Mosul in four months to see if we can get their leaders?"And what they're finding is they're gone. I told them that four months -- what are you mentioning this for?Now, if they would have said, "We will never ever attack Mosul. Mosul is " -- no, I would never do this. Me, I would -- because I always like to tell the truth.But somebody could say, "We will never, ever attack Mosul." And then the next day you hit them like you've never hit anybody.That would never do. I wouldn't.I would not do it.We have a bunch of babies running our country, folks.We have a bunch of losers. They're losers. They're babies.We have a president -- all he wants to do is campaign. His wife, all she wants to do is campaign.And I see how much his wife likes Hillary. But wasn't she the one that originally started the statement, "If you can't take care of your home " -- right? -- "you can't take care of the White House or the country?" Where's that? I don't hear that. I don't hear that.She's the one that started that. I said, "We can't say that; it's too vicious." Can you believe that? I said that. "We can't say " -- they said, "Well, Michelle Obama said it." I said, "She did?"Now, she said that, but we don't hear about that.Let me tell you, if Hillary Clinton gets elected, we've got four more years of Obama. We have a disaster. We have ISIS all over.We won't win anymore. And your taxes are going up. And she wants to double up and triple up on Obamacare, which has to be repealed and replaced. It's a disaster.We are going to start making things in America again. We are going to start making things in North Carolina again.We are bringing back our jobs. America First. Remember that.In order to bring back manufacturing to North Carolina, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania and so many other places, we're going to undertake a major reform of our federal bureaucracy. American trade policy is currently mismanaged by dozens of competing bureaucracies spread across the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, State and Treasury. And U.S. trade representative has -- doesn't know where he's going.My administration, under it, all trade policy will be consolidated into one office. It will report to a thing called the American Desk.And I'm gonna be calling every day like three times a day, "How are we doing American Desk?" American Desk.The mission of the American Desk will be to protect the economic interest of the American worker and the national interest of the United States. We are losing our manufacturing all over the country.North Carolina's been hit hard -- almost the hardest. But we've been losing it all over the country, folks.It's coming back, and it's gonna come back fast. And they'll be a day soon -- soon. During my administration -- four years, eight years, doesn't matter -- it's coming back soon.America First. As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we're going to lower our business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent.There's no education. There are no jobs. There's no safety.Nearly 3,500 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1. You believe that? 3,500.That's worse than these war zones we're talking about.Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore. And the murder rate in the United States is the highest it's been in 45 years. And the dishonest media, they never tell you that.And it's getting worse.So, the conditions are terrible, and I say to the African American community and to the Hispanic community, and voters, what do you have to lose? Vote for Donald Trump.I will fix it. I will fix it.I will fix it.And the Democrats have been taking advantage of the African American community and the Hispanic community for years. They get their vote and then they say we'll see you in four years. They don't do a damn thing for 'em.We're gonna fix it.We're gonna make lives much better in this country for everybody. We will be a rich nation once again. But to be a rich country we must also be a safe country.Our national security at the border is a mess, very unsafe, very terrible situation. Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, I will build the wall. I promise.Oh, we love WikiLeaks. Boy, they have really -- WikiLeaks! They have revealed a lot.They've revealed that there is a great hostility toward Catholics. They've revealed that there is a great hostility toward Evangelicals. Any Evangelicals in the audience?Well, I've done great with Evangelicals, including here, where we won our primary big. But the Evangelicals and the Catholics and people of faith, I think they are going to be voting for us big leagueig league. I think they're going to be voting for us...Hillary's plan includes an open border with the Middle East. Meaning generations of radicalism and terrorism spreading and growing within ours shores.So let me state this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected president of the United States, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorist the hell out of our country.It's unbelievable. They're letting people come in from Syria and Hillary Clinton wants to increase it by 550% and already thousands and thousands.This will be in Trojan horse. Remember this. And we don't want to be the generation, we do not want to be the people that in 200 years people are laughing at for allowing it to happen.We will also stop the crisis of illegal immigration. A Trump administration will secure and defend our borders.. Without borders, we do not have a country, folks. We do not have a country.We will build a wall and Mexico will pay for the wall. Believe me.Mexico has done very well on our back; they will pay for the wall. They're making a tremendous amount of money off of us. You have to see the -- the lines -- I was in Laredo, Texas.You have to see the lines and lines, miles long of trucks pouring into Mexico and it's a one-way street, folks. It's a one-way street.We have the first ever endorsement from our ice and border patrol officers. First ever. First time they've ever endorsed.And Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton, allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released because their home countries wouldn't take them back because they're smart. They don't want to take back killers and drug dealers and all of the people that we're sending back.So we have these people, thousands, all over our streets and our cities. It was just reported that a man deported from our country 10 times in six years has been charged with raping a 12-year-old girl.In August, Texas police arrested a serial illegal immigrant rapist, who'd been deported five times. His victims included one 68- year-old woman with a cane, who took his offer to drive her home. Raped her. He left her on the side of a dirt road. Horrible, horrible condition.The 65-year-old Air Force veteran, Marilyn Pharis, was raped and beaten to death with a hammer by a repeat offending criminal illegal immigrant who should have been deported many times, but never was. What kind of a government allows its citizens to suffer such horrors?Take a look at Remembrance -- Remembrance -- remind? Remembrance Project. These are great mothers and fathers and people who have lost their loved ones to illegal immigration. Take a look, Remembrance Project. You will never see anything so sad in your lives, and for no reason.Either we win this election, or we're going to lose our country. A victory in November will be a victory for you, the American people.In closing.Thank you, thank you. In closing, here are some of the amazing things we are going to do for our country, starting in 2017. Very positive stuff.We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, perhaps even bigger. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job- killing regulation. We're going to defend religious liberty. Very important. We're going to provide school choice for every low income child in America, and we are going to end Common Core.We're going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.And we are going to appoint Justices to the United State Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.You have 18 days to make every dream you ever dreamed for your children, for your relatives, for your friends, for your country, to come true.Our campaign is powered by a love for this country and our love for our fellow citizens. We're in a divided country now. There's going to be love. There's going to be love. It's a campaign about rejecting the cynicism and elitism of our failed political establishment. I'm going to fight for every citizen of every background, from every stretch of this nation. I'm going to fight for every child living in poverty. I am going to fight for African-Americans who have not been treated fairly.I am going to fight for every mom who lost a child to illegal immigration and drugs and gang violence. You take a look. It is a huge epidemic.I am going to fight for every community whose jobs in factories have been ripped out of the states like North Carolina and shipped all over the world to Mexico and other countries but all over the world.You are going to look back at this rally in 10 years, in 20 years, in 40 years, you're going to look back for the rest your life. You are going to remember this day. This is a movement like people in this country and throughout the world have never ever seen before.Eighteen days, you are going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote you've ever cast for anyone at any time.Because starting in 2017, we are going to start winning again and you are going to start being really, really proud of your country. We don't win anymore. We're going to start winning again.We are going to build up our depleted military and take care of the greatest people on earth and we are going to take care of truly the greatest people on earth are veterans. We are going to take care of our veterans.We're going to make America safe again, and we will make America great again. Thank you. God bless you, everybody.Get out and vote. Thank you. God bless you.Thank you. Thank you.Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. That's a great honor. Boy, what a crowd.We've been all over today, North Carolina and Pennsylvania, and we have had crowds you wouldn't believe it. Congressman Duncan from Tennessee said the greatest thing he's ever seen -- he's never seen anything like this.And I'll tell you what, it's really been -- it's really been a great honor. And in 18 days, we are going to win the state of Pennsylvania and we are going to win the White House.But you have to get out November 8th. You have to get out -- you just have to get out and vote. Otherwise, we've all wasted a lot of time and energy. I've wasted time, energy and money. So you've got to get out. We've got to turn this thing around. What's going on in our country today is a disgrace.Our opponents have spent more money than ever before in the history of campaigns raised from special interests, and yet, we're leading in polls from Rasmussen to the L.A. Times to Investor's Business Daily...Leading nationwide, leading -- just came out, just came out. We're leading nationwide.Together, we're going to deliver real change that puts America First.We're going to renegotiate our terrible, absolutely terrible, horrible trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, reduce surging crime, cut taxes big league, cut regulations big leagueig league, end Common Core, bring our education local...... and repeal and replace Obamacare. Disaster.Your premiums are going up 70, 80, 90 percent and it's only going to get worse. And Hillary Clinton wants to do it more so.We're going to repeal it, we're going to replace it with something much better at a fraction of the cost.Your jobs will come back under a Trump administration. Your incomes will go up under a Trump administration. Your taxes will go way down under a Trump administration.Your companies won't be leaving Pennsylvania under a Trump administration, that I can tell you. There will be consequences.We're also going to rebuild our badly depleted military. We have the greatest people on Earth, but they've let it go. Our Navy is the smallest it's been since World War I. My plan will be to build 350 ships. We need a 350-ship Navy. It's much lower than that right now, smallest since World War I. Can you believe that?This will be the largest effort at rebuilding our military since Ronald Reagan and it will require a truly national effort and do we need that or what?The Philadelphia Navy Yard is a perfect example. I went to school in Philadelphia. I know Philadelphia very well.I will instruct my secretary of the Navy to study locations like Philadelphia with a long history of service to our military and proximity to vibrant, private industry and find ways to involve them in this national effort. It'll happen.As our fleet is rebuilt, we'll need to invest in recruiting the skilled American craftsman. That we need, like welders and pipe fitters and so many more, people that don't have jobs, the greatest people.We'll establish centers of excellence in places like Philadelphia and Port Smith, New Hampshire and Hampton Rhodes, Virginia to produce the master craftsmen we need to rebuild our fleet and many other things.We will rebuild our Navy and we will do it with American steel made right here in Pennsylvania.As part of our plan for bold change to make your life better, we will also rebuild our massively depleted infrastructure; our roads, our bridges, our tunnels. It's all falling apart. We have $20 trillion in debt and our roads and infrastructure are a disaster.Obama-Clinton doubled the national debt in eight years. But instead of rebuilding America, the money was all lost and America's infrastructure is like that of a third-world country. We spent $6 trillion in the Middle East and it's in far worse shape now than it was 15 years ago, think of it. We spent $6 trillion. We could have rebuilt our country two times over. Imagine if we had spent this money rebuilding the inner cities of Philadelphia. Instead, we spent trillions on foreign countries and left our towns and cities to crumble. How smart are our politicians. These are stupid people, stupid people.We defend other countries' borders, invest in their resources, but abandoned their own. Think of it. We fight for other countries' borders, and yet our body is like a sieve, like water pours through.We'll have strong borders. We're going to have the wall, don't worry about the wall. We're going to have the wall, that I can tell you.We will build the wall and who is going to pay for the wall?That's right.They may not know it yet; they're paying for the wall.And I met with the president of Mexico, nice guy, two months ago and we had a good meeting. Just the beginning, but we had a very good meeting, believe me. And it's very unfair. We have a highway that goes right into Mexico. They're taking our plants, they're taking our jobs, they're taking so much. We've lost so much. Look at Philadelphia. Look at Pennsylvania. Look at what's happened to Pennsylvania, the jobs. Look at the steel industry in Pennsylvania. It was the greatest in the world and now it's not so good. It's going to be good again; it's going to be great again, not good; it's going to be great again.The plan I'm proposing targets substantial new investment here at home to fix America's transportation, drinking water and other vital infrastructure. This can be achieved through a focus on public-private partnerships, proven financing programs and tax credits that incentivize companies to make major job and wealth-producing investments in your local economies. It should be done.This means help for projects like the Pennsylvania turnpike as well as the Pennsylvania portion of the Appalachian highway system. It needs help, needs help, not in good shape. Amazing what it looks like now compared to 10 or 15 years ago, isn't it? Look at your whole lives compared to 10 or 15 years ago.My plan will also help Pennsylvania upgrade, replace bridges in the commonwealth that have been deemed structurally deficient. It's amazing what percentage are structurally deficient. I said before sometimes, you just want to swim and just relax and swim across the river, get there safely.Some are very, very dangerous.We're also going to unleash -- thank you; I love you too.He sounds like a rough guy, but I love him. In my own way, I love him.We're also going to unleash the power of American energy right here in Pennsylvania; shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal, clean coal.We're going to put our miners back to work, folks. And we're putting Pennsylvania back to work. And we're going to put the special interests -- and who knows more about special interest than me? But we're going to put them out of work. We're going to renegotiate NAFTA, stop the TPP, which is a disaster, and stand up to foreign product dumping and currency manipulation that make it impossible for your companies to compete.Your city has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, a deal strongly supported by Hillary Clinton.Listen to this number, and I've been saying it's a typo; 70,000 -- not 7,000 or 700 or seven -- 70,000 factories have shut down or left the United States since China entered the World Trade Organization.That was another Clinton mess. And 100,000 jobs have been lost since she produced the deal, the great deal with South Korea.Just a few miles from here, there's a very famous bridge that says Trenton Makes the World Tanks.Under a Trump administration, I can promise you we are going to start making things in America again. We are going to start making things in Pennsylvania again.Your products will be sent around the world, not your jobs. Right now, your jobs are dissipated. We're going to start making things again. Do you remember it used to say Made in the USA or Made in America? Where do you see that anymore? You don't see it.Hillary is controlled by special interests who want to ship your jobs to other countries.She's the most corrupt person ever to run for the presidency of the United States.She bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after getting a congressional subpoena, lied under oath to Congress, lied to the FBI, obstructed justice, made 13 iPhones disappear, some with a hammer. And now, we just learned that two boxes of evidence are mysteriously missing.And we just had a four-star General, highly respected, General Cartwright, you heard what happened yesterday. He could go to jail for five years because he supposedly told a lie to the FBI, one lie.And I don't know that it was even a lie. I don't know that our General Cartwright -- this is a four-star general. This happened yesterday. Could go to jail for five years. And there have been nothing but lies to the FBI. Now from WikiLeaks, we've just learned she tried to get $12 million from the king of Morocco for an appearance, one appearance. More pay for play.That's why I'm proposing a package of ethics reforms to make our government honest once again. It's time to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C.Is there any place more fun to be than a Trump rally, right?One new proposal I'm outlining today will help us put the corrupt regulation industry out of business. They are killing your steel. They are killing your energy. They're really, really hurting our country. And we need regulation. We need regulation for safety and we need regulation for the environment. But we don't need what's happening with the regulation industry, that I can tell you.I will work with Congress to require that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated.We're losing $2 trillion in economic activity a year to regulations. The only people getting rich are the lobbyists, the lawyers and the special interests.I'm also going to push for a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all of our members of Congress. It's time.Not only will we in government -- well, do you think it's time?Right? Not only will we end government corruption, but we'll end economic stagnation. My plan lowers are business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent and lowers taxes for everybody straight across the board, everybody as individuals, and simplifies our tax code.We're also going to rebuild our inner cities. African-Americans and Hispanics living in the inner cities are suffering. The violence is unbelievable and unbearable. You walk to the store with your child and you get shot. There's no education. There are no jobs. There's no safety. Nearly 3,500 people have been shot in Chicago since January 1st, the beginning of the year. Homicides are up nearly 50 percent in Washington, D.C. and more than 60 percent in Baltimore and it's getting worse.Murder in the United States is up more, think of it, is up more than at any time over 45 years, the highest level in 45 years. You don't hear that from these dishonest people back there, meaning the media. Look at them, look at them, the most dishonest people.They are the most dishonest people. They are dishonest people.We're living in a rigged system, and believe me, they're a big part of the rigging, those people, believe me. They don't tell the truth.So to the African-American and Hispanic voters suffering in inner cities and other places that are so riddled with crime, with no jobs, with no education or very poor education, I say what do you have to lose? I will fix the inner cities. I will fix education. We will bring back jobs. We will make the inner cities safe.Some of the inner cities are as dangerous as the war zones you read about in the Middle East.We will do a great job. We will also make our nation rich again. We have to do that. We have to do that.But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. National security begins at the border.Speaking in secret to a foreign bank, Hillary Clinton said her dream is for totally open trade and open borders and she denied it.And she denied it the other night in the debate. But she turned out to be wrong. Who won the debate?That one -- honestly, that was not close. Except for a couple of dishonest groups, they would say, oh I think she won, I think she -- give me a break.Hillary's plan includes an open border with the Middle East, meaning generations of radicalism and terrorism spreading and growing within our shores, not good. She even wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees over Obama's numbers to come pouring into our country.She wants 500 -- think of it, 550 percent more than the thousands that are already coming in. The great white horse, you watch folks, it's a great white horse.So let me state very clearly the fact that if I'm elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorism the hell out of our country.We will also stop the crisis of illegal immigration.Boy, what spirit. Pennsylvania, I love Pennsylvania.I got a good education in Pennsylvania, my kids got a good education in Pennsylvania. Smart people in Pennsylvania, tough and smart and sharp and people that don't like what's happening to their country, that's who's in Pennsylvania, I'll tell you.A Trump administration will secure and defend our borders, believe me. And yes, we will build the wall.We have the honor of being the first ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers; 16,500 Border Patrol and ICE just last week endorsed us. They've never endorsed a presidential candidate, never.It was just reported that a man deported from our country 10 times in six years has been charged with raping a 12-year-old girl.In August, Texas police arrested a serial illegal immigrant rapist who had been deported five times. One victim included a 68-year-old woman with a cane who took his offer to drive her home. He left her on the side of a dirt road in absolutely horrible, horrible condition.A 64-year-old Air Force veteran, Marilyn Ferris, was raped and beaten to death with a hammer by a repeat offending criminal illegal immigrant who should've been deported many times, but never was under the Obama administration.If I'm elected, we will impose tough new mandatory minimum federal prison sentences for anyone who illegally reenters the country after previously being deported. They won't come back.And we will swiftly remove and deport all criminal aliens from this country; the gang members, the drug lords. We've got some bad dudes and they're preying on our citizens and that's not going to happen. It's going to be one of the first things we do.Either we win this election or we lose the country. And believe me, this is the last time we are going to have a chance to win. This is it, folks. This is it. It's the last time.A victory in November will be a victory for you, the American people, and that's what it is. I didn't need to do this. I didn't need to do this. It's a lot of work. I didn't need it, but I'm doing it. And I know the other side. I've been on the other side for a long time, I know it. But I also saw that this country was going bad. It was going in the wrong direction, just going in the wrong direction. I love our country and we're going to pull it off. We're going to make it great again. We're going to make America great again.Here are some of the amazing things we're going to be doing for our country starting in 2017.We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes a lot. She's going to raise your taxes. That came out loud and clear in the debate, going to raise your taxes. We're going to lower your taxes big leagueig league, not only the business taxes, we're lowering everybody's. We're simplifying the code. Who knows the code better than me? We're simplifying the code. We're simplifying the code. The only one that's going to do badly is H&R Block. They won't do so well. They're not going to be so happy.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We are going to defend religious liberty, which is under siege, under siege.Religious liberty is under siege. We are going to provide school choice to every low-income child in America and we are going to end Common Core.We're going to support the great men and women of law enforcement.We will save the Second Amendment, also under siege.We're going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.For the next 18 days, you have to get every last person you know out to the voting booths. You have to do it or we've wasted so much, November 8th. This is our one magnificent chance to reclaim our country, the country we love for we the people.I am going to fight for every citizen of every background from every stretch of this nation. I am going to fight for every child living in poverty. I am going to fight for every mom who lost her child to illegal immigration and drugs and gang violence, and that's a lot of people and these are great people.The Remembrance Project, think about the Remembrance Project. Look it up, credible people.I am going to fight for every community whose jobs and factories have been ripped out of our states like Pennsylvania and shipped to Mexico and other countries all over the world. That's not happening anymore.I am going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.I am going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. We're a divided nation. We are going to be a nation of spirit. We are going to love everybody. There's love in this room. We're going to love everybody. Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.You are going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You are going to remember this day in 10 and 20 and 30 years from now. This is a movement like you and the media have never, ever seen before. There has never been anything like this.Too bad they won't write and speak honestly about it. It would actually make for much better television.You're going to look back at this election and say this is by far the most important vote you've ever cast for anyone at any time. You're going to be proud of your country again. We're going to make great deals and bring back jobs. We're going to have a strong military. We're going to take care of our great veterans. We're going to take care of our veterans.If we win, the change you've been waiting for will finally arrive, just remember. We're going to do so much. And remember the inner cities, the African-American community, just remember what I'm saying. We will do such a great job. Those communities have been ruled by Democrats for in some cases over 100 years unbroken. We will do such a great job. We have to get everybody together. We have to get out and vote. We're going to have -- believe me, this is Brexit times five; you watch what's going to happen.We will make American wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you, everybody. I love you. God bless you. God bless you. November 8th, get out and vote, November 8th. Thank you, everybody.Thank you, everybody. Thank you.Great to see you, Abe.Boy oh boy, what a crowd.We have...We have people over there standing in plants. They're in plants.I hope you're comfortable.It's great to be here in St. Augustine. What a great place.Great to be back in Florida. I love Florida. This is my second home. I'm here all the time.And just in case you haven't heard, we're winning -- not only Florida but we're gonna win the whole thing.The new poll that just came out from Investor's Business Daily, which was the most accurate poll from the last three presidential elections, has us up 2 points nationwide.What we have is we have a movement like they've never seen before. We have some very, very unhappy people out there. I'll tell you, when they hear this they are not happy.But we're gonna take our nation back, remember it. We're gonna bring it back.It's enough.It's enough.You heard where they have two more hostages in Iran and they're asking for billions of dollars. It's enough.Early voting in Florida begins today, through the 5th. So make sure you get out and vote.Locations include City Hall and the Supervisor of Elections Office. You gotta get out there.Who's voted already?That's not bad. Well, you can do it early, because if you're not feeling well on the 8th of November, we don't wanna take a chance. But if you're not feeling well, get up and vote. Who cares, right?Seventy-five percent of the American people, based on all polls, think our country is headed on the wrong track. And we're going to fix it.Common sense. Our country is going to be put back on the right track and very, very quickly. And you're gonna be very proud of your country again. You're gonna be happy.Together, we're going to fix our rigged system and deliver real change that once again puts America First.But we have to fix our country. We have to fix our country.The fact that the Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop our campaign, is only more proof that our campaign represents the kind of change that only arrives once in a lifetime. And it's true.Again, there has never been a movement like this in the history of our country. And even those pundits that dislike me and dislike you and dislike everybody, they will admit, and they do admit, they have never seen anything like this before.And wait'll you see the results start to come in. The results are already starting: We're way ahead in Ohio, we're way ahead in Iowa, we're going great in North Carolina.Because people of this country are fed up with stupidity and weakness, and we can't beat ISIS, and all of the problems that we've got going. They're fed up.And you know what else? They're fed up with losing their jobs to other countries all the time.The best evidence that our system is rigged is the fact that Hillary Clinton, despite her many crimes, was even allowed to run for president in the first place.True.Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 telephones disappear, some with a hammer, and then told the FBI she couldn't remember 39 different times.That the leadership of the FBI and the Department of Justice let Clinton off the hook for her crimes against our nation is one of the saddest moments in the history of our country.Just today, there are shocking new revelations -- which you've seen -- front page of the Wall Street Journal, about how the Clinton campaign has corrupted our government. It was just learned that one of the closest people to Hillary Clinton, with long-standing ties to her husband and herself, gave more -- this just came out -- gave more than $675,000 to the campaign of the spouse, the wife of the top FBI official who helped oversee the investigation into Mrs. Clinton's illegal email server.So the man that was investigating her from the FBI, his wife runs for office and they give her more than $675,000 to run. And it just came out. They just figured it out.We've never had a thing like this in the history of this country. This represented a large portion of the money the FBI official's spouse had for the entire campaign. A big, big percentage. It's absolutely disgraceful, it's absolutely terrible. And it's unbelievable how Hillary Clinton got away with the email lie, the email scam, the email corruption, but now at least we have a pretty good idea.And General Cartwright, a four -- think of this -- a four-star general, highly respected, just at the end of last week struck a deal. He lied one time to the FBI and he said he did that for national security reasons -- highly respected man, four-star. We're talking about a four-star general and he's going to go to jail perhaps for as much as five years. And that's a tiny fraction of what Hillary Clinton did.So the fact that she is even allowed to run means our system is rigged. She never had a chance of being convicted. Hillary knew this money was being paid and she has to be held accountable for this. Yet another crime, one of so many. And she has to be held accountable because she knew that money, $675,000 plus, was being paid. So how is she allowed to continue to run for president? How is she allowed?She gets a subpoena from the United States Congress asking for her emails and other records and she bleaches them and deletes them. Now, bleaching nobody ever heard of. People -- sophisticated people in that world -- and the reason it's so expensive to do it. So not only did they delete them, they bleached them. And now, two weeks ago, they find out that two boxes of emails are missing. And you don't read about that in the New York Times and you don't read about that in the other newspapers because the system is corrupt, the system is broken.The system is corrupt, folks, and I've been saying it's rigged. I've been saying it for a long time. The system is rigged. WikiLeaks also shows how John Podesta rigged the polls by oversampling Democrats, a voter-suppression technique. And that's happening to me all the time. When the polls are even, when they leave them alone and do them properly, I'm leading. But you see these polls where they're polling Democrats, how's Trump doing? Oh, he's down. They're polling Democrats.The system is corrupt and it's rigged and it's broken and we're going to change it.Thank you. In an email, Podesta says that he wants oversamples for our polling in order to maximize what we get out of our media polling. It's called voter suppression because people will say oh, gee Trump's out. Well, folks we're winning, we're winning, we're winning.These thieves and crooks, the media -- not all of it, not all of it, but much of it.They're the most crooked -- they're almost as crooked as Hillary. They may even be more crooked than Hillary because without the media, she would be nothing. Without the media, Hillary Clinton would be nothing. They're disgraceful. Just remember that, just remember that. Without the dishonesty and deceit of the media, Hillary Clinton would be nothing, nothing.Here's how all of this affects you. When the people who control the political power in our society can rig investigations like her investigation was rigged, can rig polls -- you see these phony polls -- and rig the media, they can wield absolute power over your life, your economy and your country and benefit big time by it.They control what you hear and what you don't hear, what is covered, how it's covered, even if it's covered at all. Sometimes, I'll have like these great events and it won't be covered. If there's a little glitch, it's front page news all over the world. They can ship your jobs all over the world, let drugs pour into your -- look at the drugs that are pouring into this area, but all over -- let drugs pour into your community and let Congress write loopholes to benefit a select few.And then you always hear Hillary, she's gonna fight ISIS. Well, she's been there for a long time. She and Obama threw their incompetence and this guy, all he does is campaign. He ought to go back and trying to get some jobs for our country. All he does is campaign.We have an incompetent president. We have a president that doesn't know what he's doing. And again, take a look at Mosul. They announced four months ago, three months ago, we're going into Mosul. We're gonna get the leaders of ISIS because they're living in Mosul. Guess what? Twelve minutes later, the leaders -- they left. They're not stupid, they left. Whatever happened, remember the great general who was called the element of surprise, the element of surprise.So now, we're bogged out in Mosul. The enemy is much tougher than they thought. They've had a lot of time to get ready. They're using human shields all over the place. It's a horrible, horrible situation that's going on.Why did we have to tell them we're going in? Why didn't we go in and then tell the public a week later, congratulations we just got the leadership. We didn't lose many people. I'm telling you, folks. Our leadership -- I went to an Ivy League school. But there's some words that you can't describe any better. Our leadership is stupid, these are stupid people.So bad. These are stupid, stupid people and they're leading us right down the tubes. The corrupt system can also force brave National Guardsmen from California to return the bonuses they were promised, something that would never happen under a Trump administration. How about that one? These people, "We want your money back that we gave you years ago."This can only happen with these incompetent people we have running and people with no common sense. They're incompetent, but they have no common sense. They have no common sense. While the media and politicians celebrate in Washington D.C., our inner cities crumble, innocent children are shot in the street and working families who just want a raise can't get a break. The media isn't just against me, they're against all of you.That's really what they're against. They're not against me, they're against what we represent.Like Hillary Clinton, they look down on the hardworking people of the country. That's what's happened. The media is entitled, condescending and even contemptuous of the people who don't share their elitist views. And this is all for money. This is for money, largely, money and power. I see you and I hear you. I am your voice. Remember...Remember, I was on the other side of this equation for a long time. It was very comfortable, it was a very good side, but then I decided that -- you know, I'll tell you the bottom line. I love our country and we were going bad. We were going bad.I will never let you be the forgotten people again. We're the forgotten people. I will never let you down, I promise. I will never, ever let you down.When we win, your voice will boom through the halls of Washington and will be heard all across the world. This is bigger than Brexit what's going on. This is bigger than Brexit.And folks, get out and vote. Leave here and vote. Leave here and vote or we have wasted a hell of a lot of time, energy, and in my case, a lot of money. I'm not a politician and I never wanted to be a politician, believe me. I ran because this country has been good to me, I love America, I could not stand by and watch what was happening to our great country. I didn't want to do it.My only special interest is you, the American people, and we're going to solve the riddle of what's going on in Washington. It's time to clean up our nation's capital. That's why I proposed a contract with the American voter. It's a set of promises for what I'll do in my first 100 days. It includes getting rid of immediately Obamacare, which is a disaster.Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world. Quote, "craziest thing in the world " where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. Now, he may have had a tough evening when he went home, but that's right. And she wants to make it far worse. She wants to double down. She wants to make it bigger. It's going to destroy the American family and it's destroying American business, especially small business.But you know what else? It's not working. It's no good. It's terrible healthcare and you know your numbers are so crazy, you really can't use it. Your deductibles are so high you'll never get to use it. It's just one more reason why we have to win on November 8th.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption and put the special interests out of business. We're going to do it.I understand it. I understand it very well. I want everyone in Washington to hear and to heed the words that we all say together. If we win on November 8th, we are going to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. We're draining the swamp.Under my contract on my first day in office, my administration will immediately pursue the following six measures to make our government honest once again.First, a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.Second, a hiring freeze on all non-essential federal employees. And that does not include the military, believe me.Third, a requirement that for every new federal regulation, two existing regulations must be eliminated. Regulations are putting us out of business.Fourth, a five-year ban on White House and congressional officials becoming lobbyists after they leave government service. They're making a fortune. They control government.Fifth, a lifetime ban on White House officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government. How simple?And sixth, a complete ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections.On the same day, I will begin taking the following seven actions to protect our American workers. Our jobs are being stolen. The single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. That's what's happened to our country because of our politicians. And in some cases it is not just lack of intelligence, it's not just stupidity. In some cases, it's because they're getting so much money from donors and special interests that they want to do it. They don't care about our country.First, I will announce -- I love you, too.My intention to re-negotiate NAFTA.The worst economic trade deal ever signed in the history of the world also, or withdraw from the deal and we'll start something that's going to be much, much better.Second, I will announce our withdrawal from the Transpacific Partnership, a disaster, a disaster.Third, I will direct my secretary of the Treasury to label China a currency manipulator. They are. They know it.I have a great relationship with China. I've made a lot of money with China. But you know what? They know. They told me. That's how they do it. It's the single greatest tool they have, currency manipulation, and they're grand masters. They do a great job. I congratulate them. I'm not angry at China. I'm angry at our country for allowing them to do it. OK? I am not angry at China.Fourth, I will direct the secretary of commerce and U.S. trade representative to use every tool under American and international law to end foreign trade abuses that hurt the American worker, of which there are many things.Fifth, I will lift the restrictions on the production of shale, oil, natural gas and clean oil.We -- we will also put our miners back to work and we will develop clean coal. Our miners have been treated badly. Clean coal.Seven, cancel billions in payments to U.N. climate change programs. Now, think of this...We paid billions and use the money to fix America's water and environmental infrastructure, not throw it out the window.Additionally, on the first day, I will take the following five actions to restore security and the constitutional rule of law. And I just met with your great sheriffs and your great law enforcement people and your firefighters.Your first responders, these are great people.These are great people. First, cancel every unconstitutional executive action or executive order, memorandum issued by President Obama.Where are he and Michelle campaigning today? Where are they? Wouldn't you rather see them like in that White House figuring out how to knock the hell out of ISIS? Wouldn't you rather have them in the White House like working hard so that Mexico stops stealing our companies and therefore our jobs?Wouldn't it be great -- wouldn't it be great if they could come up with a great healthcare program instead of one where your numbers are 70, 80, even 90 percent more than they were just recently? You know, you have increases in Obamacare that are going through the roof, it's out of control.By the way, just so you understand, it's a dead program. It's unaffordable. Hillary wants to throw more money at it to keep it going, it's a dead program and it's putting our businesses out. I'd love to see him in the White House working instead of campaigning for Crooked Hillary Clinton, I'll be honest.Remember what he said? Donald Trump will never win the Republican primary, he will never do that.Sorry, sorry."He will never win.""The Republicans will never do that." Well, they did it. Sorry. And what happened? We got the most votes in the history of the Republican primary system; over 14 million votes.Forty-two states.Second, begin the process of selecting a replacement for Justice Scalia, great man, from one of the 20 judges on my list, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Third, cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.How bad is that?Fourth, begin swiftly to remove all criminal aliens from our country.So we have many illegal immigrants in our country who are criminals, convicted criminals, murderers, drug lords, gang members. And what happened during Hillary Clinton's stay during the -- her secretary of State days, people would take them out -- because I tell you what, these border patrol agents and ICE agents, they're great people. They want to do the job but they're told, "Stand back."But these were bad. And they'd bring them back to their country, and very intelligently, because they know who they're dealing with, they say, "We don't want them." They don't want drug kingpins, they don't want murderers and gang members, so they'd say, "Turn around. We're not accepting them."So they turn around, and they say, "Madam Secretary, they won't accept them." "Oh, that's OK. Let's let them out on our streets." And we have that. We have that. And I promise you one thing. During my presidency, there will not be one instance where those countries don't take these people back. Not one.Fifth, suspend immigration from terror-prone regions where vetting cannot safely occur, including the suppression of the Syrian refugee program, which Hillary Clinton wants to expand by 550 percent over the thousands and thousands of people that are already coming in. We know nothing about them.That will be the next great Trojan horse. You watch. Watch what happens.Next, I'll work with Congress to introduce the following legislative measures and fight for their passage within the first 100 days of my administration. We're gonna pass middle-class tax relief and simplification act.We're giving you massive tax relief for the middle class with two children, as an example, would get a 35 percent tax cut. We have to. The middle class has been forgotten in our nation.American Infrastructure Act. One trillion dollars in public- private infrastructure investment. Our infrastructure is going to hell. Our roads, our highways, our tunnels, our bridges -- you see the report on the bridges, how unsafe so many bridges -- I'm gonna start swimming across rivers and lakes now.I don't want to drive. I mean, tremendous percentages of bridges are, they say, virtually ready to fall, fall down. Our country -- think of it.Obama has doubled our national debt to $20 trillion. He's added $10 trillion in just seven and a half years. Now, here's the problem. Here's the problem. It'd be one thing if the country was in tippy-top shape. The roads are beautiful, the highways are beautiful, the tunnels, the schools, the hospitals. Our country's a mess. Our infrastructure's falling apart and we owe $20 trillion.It takes this kind of a mind to figure that one out because it's a mess.This means help for projects like the First Coast Expressway. Do you like the First Coast Expressway? School Choice and Educational Opportunity Act. Gives parents the right to send their kids to the school of their choice. Choice. Choice. Choice. Great. Choice is important. And we're going to end Common Core and bring education local.Then, we have one that at least a few of you will like. It's called the Repeal and Replace Obamacare Act.What a disaster.By the way, I just left the farmers, West Palm Beach farmers, beautiful farmers, great people. And they said that Obamacare is destroying their business, destroying their business. They can't afford it. They don't even know how to account for it. They have to hire consultants just to fill out forms it is so complicated. They're so downed, they're so discouraged.And the same thing happened in Iowa. The same thing happened in New Hampshire. Everywhere I go, people are despondent over it.Actually, worse than our high taxes, worse than our overregulation, which is killing us also, by the way. It's killing our businesses. Obamacare is a catastrophe that she wants to build bigger and better, but better means more expensive. It's going to get worse. Under Hillary Clinton, it's going to get worse. And don't forget, she's got a lot of people that gave her money that want Obamacare to continue. Just remember that.So fully repeal Obamacare and replace it with patient-centered reforms that are totally affordable and much better. So we'll have better healthcare at a much lower price.Affordable Childcare and Eldercare Act allows Americans to deduct childcare and eldercare from their taxes. It creates tax-free dependent care savings accounts for all American families. And this one, I attribute to Ivanka Trump. Has anyone ever heard of Ivanka?She feels so strongly about it. And I agree.End Illegal Immigration Act. Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants, including Americans like Josh Wilkerson, whose mother I've gotten to know during the campaign. An incredible woman who suffers every day. Josh, a student in high school, was tortured, strangled and beaten to death by an illegal immigrant and then his body was set on fire.I've also met Julie, and you have to see that -- the family of Josh. It's -- I said, does time make it better? She actually said time, in a certain way, makes it worse. Makes it worse. This was somebody that should've never been in the country, should've been thrown out of the country and nobody acted. And Josh should be alive.We're going to build the wall, don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Don't even think about. Don't even think about. Don't even think about it.I've also met and gotten to really like Julie Goldlock whose son Spencer was shot in the head by the illegal immigrants. Spencer had just dropped his girlfriend off and was driving innocently home. One more life stolen. This person should never have been allowed in our country, should have been removed from our country. They knew he was trouble. He stayed.This crime wave ends, believe me, quickly when I am president. Believe me. It ends quickly.Hillary, on the other hand, is for totally open borders, which would mean the destruction of our country.That's the end. Once you have open borders, you no longer have a country, folks. I hate to tell you.Restoring Community Safety Act empowers federal law enforcement to dismantle criminal gangs and to deport or imprison violent criminal offenders quickly, quickly, quickly.The Restoring National Security Act eliminates the Obama-Clinton defense sequester which has destroyed our military. Our young people, the greatest in the world, are flying planes that when they need parts, they go to a plane museum or they go to an airplane graveyard because they don't even make the parts anymore. This is what we're -- this is the United States.The rebuilding of our military will include major new assets across the state of Florida, including the new Navy and Coast Guard ships to patrol the seas and new aircraft that will fly from MacDill Air Force Base and Naval Air Station Pensacola. We love those people.I think we're getting all of the military vote. And I know we're getting all of the law enforcement vote.Get out and vote.Clean Up Corruption in Washington Act enacts new ethics -- so important because it is a mess. It is the swamp. Enacts new ethics reforms to end government corruption. But think about that. Think about what was on the front page today of the Wall Street Journal. Just think about it. Think about it. What's happened to our country, how embarrassed the FBI -- some of the greatest people in our country are in the FBI -- how embarrassed these people must be to see what's happened to the FBI. And how dare they take a four-star highly respected general, James Cartwright, and destroy him, but Hillary Clinton is allowed to lie over and over and over again. How dare they.With a victory in November, everything will change. That change includes standing in solidarity with the suffering people of Cuba and Venezuela against the oppression of the Castro and Maduro regimes.And we will help our friends in Haiti who've been ripped off by the Clintons for years to recover and rebuild. And by the way, the people of Haiti truly hate the Clintons. You know what's happened there. They hate the Clintons.For eight long years, here in America, the conservative movement has longed to reverse the illegal and unconstitutional conduct of President Obama. On November 8th, we can wipe away the lawless legacy and create a such an unbelievable American future. But you know what? We don't have another four years. We're gonna either win this or it's over. It'll never change, because the numbers -- the numbers are so stacked against us. They're so stacked against making America great again. They're stacked. So I really mean this. I believe it 100 percent. We have to win on November 8th. You have to leave here today and vote. It's better. Leave here today and vote.We have to win on November eight. Leave here today and vote. Just get it over with. Veterans for trump. Thank you, sir. Thank you. And Trump for Veterans, you're right.Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days. We're going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan, even bigger. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation, support the men and women of law enforcement.We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.I will promote life, defend religious liberty and select justices in the mold of Justice ScaliaAnd I was just informed yesterday that Justice Scalia's wife, who I hear is a great lady, has a Trump sign on her front lawn of the house.I love them. Thank you. I will end the wasteful government spending and hold the bureaucrats totally accountable. I will faithfully execute the sacred office of commander-in-chief and create a new foreign policy that once again puts America First. We haven't been there in a long time.I'm going to fight for every last citizen of this nation and I am going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.Honest Abe, he knows. Honest Abe knows. I don't know who that guy is, but he looks a hell of a lot like Honest Abe I'll tell you.If you get out and vote, if we win this election, which we will, I really believe we will, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again and we will make America great again. God bless you, everybody. Go out and vote.Thank you. Boy.There's 7,000 people outside. We're trying to get them in. Should we wait for them to get in? I agree.I want to thank you. This is amazing. These crowds are amazing no matter where we go. We're going to make America great again. No matter where we go, these crowds are incredible. And it's great to be back here in Tampa and to be back in my second home, Florida. I love my second home. I love Florida.In case you haven't heard, the new poll from Investor's Business Daily, the most accurate poll for the last three presidential elections by far, has us up two points nationwide. We're leading.Number one.Early voting in Florida begins today through the fifth, so make sure you get out and vote or this whole thing, you know, the movement that they're all talking about all over the world. It won't be the same, folks. We're not going to be able to do what we wanted to do.Get your friends, your family, your co-workers out to vote so you can go vote today. You can go vote tomorrow, but get out to vote. Don't wait until the end.Get out to vote.You know, this is a movement like they have never seen in our country before, never seen. The great pundits and, frankly, some of them aren't so great, but there has never been a political phenomena like what we're doing right now and we're all part of it. And we have to finish it off, so get out and vote.Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track according to all of the latest polls, and we're are going to fix it.I love those pink signs, "Women for Trump." I love those signs."Women for Trump, " I love them.We are going to put our country back on the right track, and we're going to do it quickly. Together, we are going to deliver real change that puts America First, something we haven't been for a long time. They don't put us first anymore. They put other countries first. They take our jobs. They take our companies. We're going to stop that very, very quickly.The plan includes -- and it's so important, we are going to transform the tax system of our country, which is a mess.We are going to stop all of the silliness, all of the games, all of the dishonesty. We are going to have smart trade policies, policies where we don't lose our job, smart energy policies to create 25 million new jobs in the next 10 years. We desperately need it, and it's going to happen.My plan also includes repealing and replacing Obamacare.A disaster. And in case you haven't heard today's news, it's just been announced that Americans are going to experience yet another double-digit spike in your premium for Obamacare and it doesn't work.In some areas, they are paying 60, 70 and 80 percent more than they were paying last year. It's over for Obamacare. And Hillary Clinton wants to double-down and make it more expensive, and it's not going to work. I called it when it first came out, it's only getting worse. And not only for you, for the country because our country can't afford it, you can't afford it, we're going to have great health care at a fraction of the course, and you watch. It will happen.On top of that, over two-thirds of the counties are losing insurers. And if you look at it, all over, they're losing the insurers. And one in five Americans trapped on Obamacare will only have a single insurer to choose from and, boy, are those insurers going to have a good time with you. It's ridiculous.Even Bill Clinton admitted that Obamacare, he said, "is the craziest thing in the world where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. And he had a rough night when he went home that night, I will tell you, but it was telling the truth.It's one of the most important reasons why we have to win on November 8th -- repeal and replace Obamacare.After what, we can't go on like this. You can't -- in so many ways, but you can't go on like that with respect to affordable -- you know, they call it "affordable health care."The Democratic governor, by the way, of Minnesota said, "Affordable health care is no longer affordable." Which is it?Change has to come from outside, a corrupt and broken system. It is corrupt and it is broken. The fact that the Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop our campaign is only more proof that our campaign represents the kind of change that only arrives once in a lifetime. This is once in a lifetime. This is our last chance. In four years, it's not going to happen. It's not going to happen. You got to get out and vote. This is our last chance.Not going to happen. This is it.I am asking the American people to rise above the noise and the clutter and to embrace the faith and optimism that is crucial and the most crucial ingredient of the American character.I'm asking you to dream big once again. Remember, we used to dream big in this country. And imagine all of the amazing things we can do for our country.Real change begins with fixing our rigged and broken system.This is a big crowd of people.This is something.So let's try it. You're ready? These people are among the most dishonest people in the world -- the media. They are the worst.They're trying to fix the election for Crooked Hillary. Let them turn their cameras to see the crowd. Let them turn the cameras.They never do it. They never do it. They don't want to show the crowd. They don't want to show the crowd. They don't want to show what's happening. They don't want to show the movement. They don't want to show the crowd. It's so sad.Look at that. They don't move those cameras.I'll go home my wife will say, "It sounded like a lot of people, but they never show the crowd, " because you know why they don't, because they're dishonest, they don't want to show it.Now, if we had one of those paid-for protesters that you read about last week -- you read last week, $1,500 to people to act violent at our rallies. And they got caught. Then they'd show the crowd.And the system is rigged. The best evidence that the system is rigged is the fact that Hillary Clinton, despite her many crimes, was even allowed to run for President in the first place.Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails. And by the way, sophisticated people, people that really know the Internet and this sup said, "They had never even heard of bleaching because it's such an expensive process. But she bleached and deleted 33,000 emails like a Congress under oath made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer and then told the FBI she couldn't remember anything 39 times.And she runs for president, right?Yesterday, there are shocking new revelations about how the Clinton campaign has corrupted our government. It was just learned a little while ago that one of the closest people to Hillary Clinton with long-standing ties to her and her husband gave more than $675,000 to the campaign of the spouse of a top FBI official -- his wife...... who helped oversee the investigation into Mrs. Clinton's illegal email server.So listen to this, so listen to this. The FBI is investigating Clinton or as I would call her "Crooked Hillary."So they were investigating. And virtually, her best friend and absolutely closest ally gives $675,000 in campaign contributions to the woman who's married to the FBI person who's doing the investigation. No wonder they found nothing wrong.How does that look? How does that look? So dishonest.This represented a large portion of the money the FBI officials spouse had for the purpose of campaigning. This was a tremendous amount of the money -- big proportion.We have to investigate the investigation, folks. Our system is rigged. Our system is rigged. She never had a chance of being convicted even though everybody in this audience and boy, do we have a lot of people.Everybody here...... knows that she's 100 percent guilty. Horrible.In more breaking news, a former State Department aide to Hillary Clinton just pleaded -- just now -- just pleaded the fifth more than 90 times in a sworn deposition despite being given immunity by the Obama Justice Department.Do you know how many people have been given immunity -- meaning they're not going to be prosecuted -- do you know how many people? Tell me, five plus one, probably keeps going. No, this is our country, in terms of justice, has never reached a lower point than what we're witnessing today.The same aide had previously told the Benghazi Committee that he had no knowledge of the server's existence, no knowledge, but he did. But we now learn that this aide not only knew about Hillary's illegal server, but ordered his employees not to discuss its existence.WikiLeaks also shows how John Podesta, a man who speaks badly of Hillary and everybody else. He's a nasty guy. I don't know him, but boy, he speaks bad. he said she has bad instincts, but Bernie said she has bad judgment. So what do you want to put somebody in office who their top people that know 'em best. They say bad judgment, bad instincts. We're going to make her our president. I don't think so, I don't think so.John Podesta rigged the polls by oversampling. He said, "Do this, " by oversampling Democrats. A voter -- I mean, you see this, you see it all -- a voter suppression tactic. Right? Have you heard about this? It just came out.Podesta is also linked to a major Kremlin-backed firm in Russia. You know the way every time Russia is brought up, they say, "Oh, Trump, what do I have to do with it?"And now they're linked. They always like to say -- and by the way, how would you like to be, she always likes to tie me in with Russia. I have nothing to do with Russia, folks, OK?Folks, we're run by people that are not smart people or to put in a -- to put it in a different way, to put it a different way, we are run by stupid people, stupid people.And remember that Hillary Clinton gave Russia 20 percent of American uranium and, you know, she was paid a fortune. You know, they got a tremendous amount of money. But the corrupted media never talks about these things. They never talk about it.The media also doesn't talk about Hillary's reckless plans for starting a shooting war in Syria that would involve a nuclear on Russia. She just has bad judgment, she does bad judgment. If you look at her plans for Syria, these are the plans of a child. These are the plans of a person that doesn't know what she is doing, but look at what she's done in Iraq. Look at what she's done anywhere. Look at what she's done in Libya.The level of corruption is so great Hillary Clinton even got the debate questions in advanced from Donna Brazile. She got the debate questions in advance. Think of it. Can you hear this? Hillary Clinton got the debate questions in advance from Donna Brazile. And she knew it was wrong, but never said anything to anyone, but used the questions anyway. She's Crooked Hillary, folks. She knew it was wrong. Donna Brazile is now under pressure, but she knew it was wrong and she should be more guilty than Donna Brazile. She took the questions, knew it was wrong, went out to the debate, had the answers -- I mean, how corrupt are we going to get. But the media isn't just against me, they're against all of you. That's what it is.Like Hillary Clinton, they look down on hardworking people within our country. The media is entitled, condescending and even contemptuous of people who don't share certain elitist views. While the media and politicians celebrate in Washington, D.C., our inner cities crumble, innocent children are shot in the street and working families, who just want a raise, can't get a job or get a break.Hillary raises hundreds of dollars from Wall Street, from foreign governments and from special interest. All the while, the people she pretends to care about struggle and suffer. She hasn't done anything for anybody but herself, believe me.Just look at what Clinton and her party have done to the inner cities and to the African-American and Hispanic communities. They failed them. They betrayed them, and they have abused them. She has abused the African-American community. She has abused the Hispanic community.They delivered only more crime -- poverty and joblessness. Murders just experienced their largest single year increased in the United States in the last 45 years, more murders than we've had in 45 years. We're going to turn it all around. We're going to fight for rural America, urban America, suburban America...... because we are all one America.The forgotten men and women won't be forgotten anymore -- forgotten men and women. I see you, I hear you and I will never ever let you down. I promise we will never let you down.I will be your voice, and I will fight harder than anybody has ever fought for you before, and I will win because I know how to win.I have proposed a contract with the American voter that will give the government back to the people where it belongs. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption and you put special interest and donors out of business as we know it today.And by the way, who knew the other side of the picture better than me. I knew it. And I saw that our country was going so bad, so fast. This isn't easy to do, folks. This is a lot of work. This is hard.I built a great, great company, some of the great assets in the world, and here I am, but I have to tell you our movement is being talked about all over the world because it's a movement of common sense and it's a movement of making America great again. Remember that.I want everyone in Washington to hear and to hear the words I've said and that I'm about to say. If we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C., and we are going to drain the swamp.Under my contract with the American voter, on my first day in office, my administration will immediately pursue the following reforms to stop government corruption of which there is a lot.Term limits on all members of Congress...... a hiring freeze on non-essential federal employees, but not the military. The military, we are going to make bigger, stronger. We need a strong military.For every new federal regulation -- regulations are putting our businesses out of business. Two old federal regulations will be eliminated. For every new one, they have to get rid of two.A five-year ban on lobbying by executive branch and congressional officials. They're not going to be too happy.A lifetime ban on government officials lobbying for a foreign government.A complete ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections.Under my contract, I'm also going to take the following actions on day one to protect the American worker. That's why I did this in the first place. I saw what was happening. We're losing our jobs like a bunch of babies.We're going to renegotiate NAFTA or leave the deal. We'll withdraw and we will make a brand new far superior deal. It's a two- way street. We're losing our jobs. We're losing our country. It's got to be a two-way street.Moving to Mexico, they're moving everywhere -- everywhere but here.We're going to withdraw from the Transpacific Partnership -- a disaster, a disaster.And I have no problem with China. I have no problem with their leaders doing what they are doing. What I have a problem with is our leaders allowing them to get away with this stuff. I have a real problem. They're taking our jobs.We're going to enforce all violations of trade rules that hurt United States workers of which there are many. Lift the restrictions on the production of American energy.We're going to approve energy infrastructure projects like the Keystone pipeline and many more.We're going to cancel billions and billions of dollars in payments to the United Nations climate change programs and use the money to fix America's environmental infrastructure including the Florida aquifer.We're going to fix our own environmental infrastructure, spending billions and billions of dollars, making it impossible for our companies to compete.Additionally on the first day, I will take the following actions to restore the rule of law and order.I will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We will appoint great justices to the United States Supreme Court.We'll cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.We will begin removing all criminal and legal immigrants from our country.Do you know when Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, they would catch a murderer, drug lords, gang members, violent criminals? And they bring them back to the country where they came from.Hillary Clinton was told that their country won't take them, so she said, "Oh, that's OK, bring them back; We don't want to create waves." Who can blame their country? So they brought them back. They put them back on the streets and that's where we are now.I can guarantee you one thing, whether it's four years or eight years, never once will that happen to the United States when we bring them back, they're back.Now when you hear about the highest murder rate in 45 years, there's a lot of reasons for it, but that's one of them.We're going to suspend immigration from regions comprised -- think of this, think of this, hard to believe by Islamic terrorism, including the suspension of the Syrian refugee program.We're allowing thousands of people. We don't know who they are, where they're from. We know nothing about them. Thousands and thousands are pouring into our country. And Crooked Hillary Clinton wants to allow a 550 percent increase.We have enough problems. We'll be the great Trojan horse, the great Trojan horse.Next I will work with Congress to introduce these 10 legislative measures and fight for their passage within the first 100 days of my administration. They include repealing and replacing Obamacare...... a tax cut for all middle-class families, a big one. And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise your taxes substantially. You take a look.Tariffs on companies that outsource American jobs, the companies leave. They fire their employees. We'll not going to let it happen any longer. They call it the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, greatest job theft. Think of it.Legislation to provide school choice, which the labor unions, the unions that want to allow, and we're going to end common core and bring our education locally.I'm going to authorize $1 trillion in new public-private infrastructure. That is going to be so important. Projects that will be funded include repairing the Herbert Hoover Dike in Lake Okeechobee, which is affecting everybody in Florida, which has been years and years. When you look at our bridges, you look at our tunnels, you look at our roads and highways, you look at our hospitals and schools, we're in bad shape.You know, our national debt has doubled -- doubled since Obama became president, so it's -- we've -- it's gone up, $10 trillion, so we're now going to be $20 trillion. And a bad factor, we haven't done anything. Our roads are bad, our schools are bad, our highways, our tunnels, our bridges -- our bridges are fully down. You see those reports, they are dangerous, many of them. So we're going to get our infrastructure taken care of. It's going to be in jobs, but we have to do it for our country.Legislation to immediately begin the wall and impose tough penalties.I'm going to build a wall. We're going to build a wall.Hundred percent.Who is going to pay for the wall?This is a big crowd.Well, they'll do anything, every one of them; every one of them.I'll tell you what, the media, folks, is no good. They're no good; very dishonest.In 14 days, we're going to win the state of Florida. We're going to win back the White House.We are going to win Florida. And by the way, the lines at the voting booths are record.And I notice that a lot of the people on lines -- you see the pictures -- they're wearing the red hat, the white hat, this hat. They're wearing all -- they're wearing buttons all over the place. I think those are people that are inclined to vote for us. Do you agree?So this was supposed to be a rally in that hangar. And after the first hour, they realized that wasn't going to work too well. That's fantastic. Thank you, everybody. Look at that.We're going to have a big victory. The lines are record- setting, which I knew they'd be. And a lot of people are being very surprised. It's very, very surprising. We're getting a big vote. So it's going to be a little early to tell you what those numbers are, but it's a big, big vote in the state of Florida.We are leading Iowa. We are leading Ohio. We are doing great in North Carolina. Pennsylvania, we are going to a lot. I think we're going to do great there. They put the miners out of work. We're putting the miners back to work. I think we're going to do great there.Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track. Every poll says it. We are going to fix it and we are going to get our country back on the right track very, very quickly.Together, we are going to deliver real change that once again puts America First.That begins with immediately repealing and replacing the disaster known as Obamacare.You saw what happened yesterday. The rates are going through the sky. We all knew that. I knew it before it was passed. I have been saying this for a long time. My first day in office, I'm going to ask Congress to put a bill on my desk getting rid of this disastrous law, and replacing it with reforms that expand choice, freedom, affordability. You're going to have such great health care at a tiny fraction of the cost and it's going to be so easy.It's just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double-digit hike. Now, they said 25 percent. Forget -- you'll take 25 percent. It's going to be 60, 70, 80, 90 percent. In the great state of Arizona, it is over 100 percent. It is crazy. One in five Americans trapped in Obamacare will only have a single insurer to negotiate with in your state. Congratulations. Lots of fun. You're going to have to brush up on your negotiation ability, believe me. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world, where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. And then he was forced to take it back the following day because that night he suffered greatly. He suffered.Because Hillary Clinton wants to double-up and triple-up on Obamacare, the numbers will go through the roof. Your taxes will double and triple, and in the end it's not affordable. You can't do it.The Democratic governor of Minnesota said the Affordable Act -- remember this -- the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. He doesn't know what to do. But I -- I said this before it was passed. It couldn't have worked in a million years. Insurers are leaving. Companies are fleeing. And by the way, it's putting your companies out of business. It's putting your small businesses out of business.And Hillary Clinton -- here is another thing you can say. I'm going to repeal it and replace it. She is going to expand it and it's going to get more and more expensive. And it's no good anyway because the deductibles are so high -- I mean, unless you have a really long- term serious problem at the highest level, you're never going to be able to use it, folks.Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare and make it even worse. She wants to put the government totally in charge of your health care despite the fact it's no good. It'll be much more expensive than even today.Repealing Obamacare and stopping Hillary's health care takeover is one of the single most important reasons that we must win on November 8th.Boy, this is a big crowd, by the way. A lot of people. That's a lot of people.Thank you. You know, it is funny, because you know, you listen to this phony media. I get a call an hour ago. They say, "Sir, we have a problem." I said, "Oh, here we go. What is it?" They said this, and I laugh, but they said, "The people don't fit into the hangar." I said, "But that's a good problem, isn't it?"Change has to come from outside our corrupt system. The fact that the Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop our campaign which is actually a movement. This is a movement, folks.And this is the last time we're going to have a chance. Four years, it's over. It's over. In four years, you don't have a chance. All these characters who want to run in four years, they can forget it. They're wasting their time. You don't have even a little bit of a chance. This is it. And we're really close.We're going to win Florida, by the way.No, no. These guys won't tell you that because they don't want to hear about it. But when they interview -- these are the most corrupt people. When they interview the people standing on the line and they say, "Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump." They say, "All right, let's get out of here, this is bad. This is bad news."These are the most dishonest, almost as dishonest as Crooked Hillary.I love those pink signs, "Women for Trump."I love the signs behind me, "Blacks for Trump." I like those signs."Blacks for Trump." You watch. You watch. Those signs are great. Thank you.Going to be a lot of Brexit happening in about two weeks. Lot of Brexit.Remember that. Everybody went to bed. They said, "Oh gee, I think it's not going... "And I said, "It's going to happen." And they criticized me: "Can you believe this guy? Can you believe this guy?" Just like Crooked Hillary. She had a rally -- you know her rallies last for about 15 minutes and there are very few people. But she talked about how we want peace at our rallies and this and that. She hired people -- thugs -- to go into my rallies -- 1,500 -- right? Listen to this -- $1,500 and an iPhone. "Go into the rally and beat people up.""Go into the rally and beat people up." And you remember in Pennsylvania, different places, in Chicago, remember that one? Where they were fighting. They found out our people are not so easy to beat up, that's for sure. But do you remember? Remember they went in and there was a policeman with blood pouring down his face. There was another one with a badly gashed -- this was all thugs put in there. And then I'm listening to her talk about peace at our rallies -- "We want peace."This is one of the great phonies of all time and she shouldn't be allowed to run for president with what she's done, I'll tell you right now.The fact that the Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop this movement is only more proof that our campaign represents the kind of change that only arrives once in a lifetime. This is once in a lifetime.I'm telling you. I opened the door. I looked out the window. I said, "Wow, it's so different from what they report." These people up here, they are the worst. And you know what it's called? By the way, you know what it's called, don't you? It's called voter suppression, because people give up. People give up.And we're going to win Florida and we're going to win Iowa, and we're going to win Ohio. Right?And I think we're going to win Pennsylvania...... and we're going to win North Carolina. We're going to have a lot of victories. Just keep it going, folks. We're fighting the crooked establishment and just about the biggest part of the crooked establishment are these people right back there with the phony cameras.They're a bunch of phony low-lifes. And remember Obama last week? The campaigning president. He doesn't get you jobs. He gives you lousy healthcare that you're going to pay so much for you're not going to be able to afford it. You can't afford it now. He can't beat ISIS. He's a lousy president.And you remember when I said that some of the voting is rigged? OK, everybody knows. Check out Philadelphia, Chicago, St. Louis. And he said this is a threat to our system. This is terrible, this is a threat. OK, I figured, gee whiz, wow, that's pretty bad. Except last night on television -- last night I'm watching Obama from eight years ago and he's basically saying that the whole thing is fixed.Before he won his first race, he was talking about voting and he said, remember, I come from Chicago, you know, I mean, you know -- give me a break, this guy's such a phony guy. What a phony.Real change begins with ridding Washington of corruption, of which there's plenty going around.And believe me, folks. Believe me, folks, I've been saying it for a long time. The system, the whole system is rigged. The whole system is rigged. Go back to Obamacare for a second. Remember Obama, you can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor. He said it 28 different times, keep the plan, keep the doctor. Keep your plan, keep your doctor. He lied. Remember he had Jonathan Gruber of MIT, where my uncle was a professor for 35 years -- but he had Jonathan Gruber from MIT and he was the architect of the plan.And remember, he called the American people stupid, stupid for going along with Obamacare. Then he tried to take it back. He couldn't take it back, it was a disaster. The problem is, folks, they all have a memory, including us. Two weeks and we forget. But I don't forget. And you know what, I bring it up. Jonathan Gruber said the American people are essentially stupid for approving and allowing Obamacare to happen.And you know what? We've got to show them on November 8th that we're not stupid. We're not stupid.And here's another beauty, a breaking news story today provides one of the most shocking revelations to date. As you may remember, President Obama claimed to have no knowledge whatsoever of Clinton's -- Hillary Clinton's illegal email server. I have no knowledge of it, I don't know. This guy, he's as bad as she is. And he's got to stop campaigning and bring us some jobs, OK?That jeopardized national security, her email server. But newly public emails, WikiLeaks, prove otherwise. A Clinton spokesman, Josh Waren, sent an email saying, quote, "looks like the president just said he found out Hillary Clinton was using her personal email when he saw it on the news."Oh, that's nice. But Cheryl Mills, Clinton's chief of staff, the State Department, replied, quote -- listen to this -- "We need to clean this up. He has the emails from her." They do not say state.gov, they don't say it. In other words, Mills was saying Obama, he had to know that Hillary was using an illegal server, but he claimed otherwise.So that means Obama is now into the act. And now I understand that despite his hatred of the Clintons -- because I know one thing, Bill hates him -- but despite his hatred, now I understand why he pushed her, because he didn't want to get caught up in the big lie. He's caught up now, folks.We have to investigate the investigation -- this investigation. So listen to this. Crooked Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 emails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 iPhones disappear, some with a hammer, then told the FBI she couldn't remember 39 times. Bad memory.Incredible. But we have also just learned that one of the closest people to Hillary Clinton, with longstanding ties to her and husband, the closest -- the closest person, I can tell you that, gave more -- listen to this -- just happened yesterday.Gave more than $675,000 to the campaign of the wife of a top FBI official who oversaw the investigation into Mrs. Clinton's illegal email server. In other words -- in other words...... the man who was in charge of the investigation of Hillary Clinton accepted essentially from Hillary Clinton $675,000 that went to his wife.Never happened before. Never happened. Not in this country's history. This is a disgrace. And she shouldn't be allowed to run for president. She shouldn't be allowed. She's a crook.Remember this. Remember this. Just remember this. So important. Donna Brazile, head of DNC, got the answers to a debate and the questions to a debate. So she has the questions. She gave them to Crooked Hillary. And I don't know if you saw Donna Brazile the other night on television. What a -- what a mess that was, the way she -- she didn't know what to do.Well, how did you get them? Well, it was sent by Russia, Russia. You know, they're always using Russia, like I have -- I have nothing to do with Russia. They were sent by Russia and Donald Trump, you know. These people -- and yet they have more -- because Hillary Clinton gave them 20 percent of our uranium -- gave Russia for a big payment. And her man has to do with Russia -- the whole thing -- they're a bunch of crooks. I'm telling you, our country is in such trouble.So Donna Brazile has the questions. She gives them to Crooked Hillary. OK. Now, here's what I'd like. Wouldn't it be great if Crooked Hillary -- you know, it's funny. I wonder if she had the questions the other night to our debate, because everybody tells me I killed her in that debate, which I think I did.Which I think I did.So Donna Brazile gives her all of the questions. And what happens? Hillary should turn them in, of course. Right? "Listen, I can't do this, it's" -- she didn't turn them in. She used them. And we found out through WikiLeaks that this happened.And nobody goes after her. Can you imagine if I got the answers or the questions to a debate? It would be the electric chair, right? No, no, it would be the biggest story in the world. And they're not doing anything with Donna Brazile. And they're not doing anything with Crooked Hillary Clinton. She got the answers to a debate. She got the questions to debate.And she didn't turn herself in, meaning, "I'm sorry; I'm not supposed to have this." By the way, what a great act that would have been if she did it. We would have all been shocked if she did it. But wouldn't that have been nice?The criminal conduct of Hillary Clinton threatens the foundations of democracy. I mean that.But we're going to turn it around, folks. I've proposed a contract with the American voter that will give the government back to the people.And just so you understand -- and you know this. I didn't need this. I didn't need this. I was doing very well on the other side. I was, you know, definitely doing well. I didn't need this, but I'll tell you I love our country. I had to do it. I see where our country is going, and it's not good. It's really bad.My contract begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption, and to put the special interests out of business. It's all about special interests. I want everyone in Washington to hear and to heed the words I'm about to say.If we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we, together, are going to drain the swamp.Under my contract with the American voter, we are proposing a series of ethics reforms on day one to end government corruption. They include a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.Important. A lifetime ban on government officials lobbying for a foreign government. Do you believe this?They get out, the lobby for -- they make a fortune. A total ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections. Thank you very much, we don't need your money.Under my contract, I'm also going to take a series of actions on day one to protect American workers. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. They are taking our companies, they are taking our jobs, and our politicians, many of whom are stupid and many of whom are corrupt, are allowing it to happen. We're not going to allow it any longer.Our nation has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Hillary Clinton. And by the way, the single worst trade deal ever made in history anywhere. Listen to this. Hard to believe. I've told you before I thought this was a typographical error. We've lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, WTO, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.But they've been nicely paid. Look at all the money they have pouring in; $250 million and they've been in government. It's a good government job. My contract includes the following. We will renegotiate NAFTA or withdraw from the deal to get a much better one for our workers and our companies.It's a one-way street. You know what I call it? It's a one-way highway right into Mexico. They get our jobs, they get our money, they get our plants and factories. You know what we get? Drugs and unemployment. That's what we get. We get nothing. It's a defective agreement, too, totally defective.We will withdraw from the Transpacific Partnership, another beauty. The deal Hillary Clinton called the gold standard and then during the debate, she lied. She said, "I never said that." Unfortunately at the next debate, they announced she did say it. And she also said she never was secretary of State when they talked about the red line in the sand. "I wasn't secretary of State then, " right? Remember? "I wasn't" -- she lied, she was.Even the so-called fact checkers -- who are really crooked as hell themselves, by the way. These fact checkers, they'll check facts with me and I'm like 99 percent right and they'll say "and therefore, he lied." I've gone through them where I've said OK, finally. They say "and therefore, he lied." Oh, boy, these people are bad. What a group of people we have. What a group of dishonest scum we have, I'm telling you.Hillary's Wall Street donors want it and she'd approve it. If she ever got the chance, she will approve TPP so fast and she intends to. Tim Kaine has even left the door open to passing TPP by another name. Let's change the name.And by the way, folks. We're going to win. But regardless, don't let it happen. It's too complicated. You do one deal with another. One, one, one. Make individual deals with individual nations, deal with the ones we want to deal with. You've got to see what this thing looks like, a piece of Swiss cheese. And if they default, you send them a letter of default and by the time that 30 day notice ends, you'll have a new deal that's even better.This deal is too complicated, it's almost 6,000 pages long and here's the thing. All of these other countries, they've read every single word, every comma, every period, every paragraph. I'll bet we have nobody that even reads these things, OK? And you're talking about bigger than running big companies. These are bigger deals. You can take a modest-size trade deal, it's bigger than these big companies. And we have people that are political hacks negotiate it.Not anymore. We have the greatest -- I am endorsed by some of the greatest business people in the world. We are going to use our great business people to make these deals.We will lift the restrictions on the production of American energy, which is getting clobbered with the EPA, and by the way, and with the restrictions -- including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal. We are putting our miners back to work.Hillary want to shut down American energy and put the miners out of work. She said it, "We want the mines and the miners out of work." That's nice; horrible. We are going to put the miners, the steel workers, and so many of our other workers that are being clobbered by the stupidity of our government's leadership -- we are going to put them back to work. That includes the steel workers.It's going to happen fast, too. It doesn't take long time, folks. It's going to go fast.Additionally, on the first day, I will take the following actions to restore the rule of law. These include I will cancel every illegal Obamacare executive order. We will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities. Out.We will suspend immigration from regions comprised of radical Islamic terrorists, including the suspension of the Syrian refugee program which is taking in thousands and thousands of people that we have no idea where they come from, no idea who they are. And Crooked Hillary Clinton wants to have that increased by 550 percent over and above the crazy Obama numbers. OK?Tell you what: You vote for her, you're crazy. OK? She is the worst.Next, I will work with Congress to introduce a series of legislative reforms and will fight for their passage in the first 100 days of my administration. And this legislation quickly includes Middle Class Tax Relief and Simplification Act.So essentially a middle class family with two children will get about a 35 percent tax reduction. Isn't that nice? It's about time. The middle class in our country has been devastated. And by the way, Crooked Hillary wants to raise your taxes up to the sky. She wants to raise. We are the highest taxed in the world. She wants to raise your taxes right up to the sky.And the Off-Shoring Act establishes tariffs to companies from laying off their workers and relocating to other countries, which is a disaster for us. We have companies -- all -- I could name 100 if you have all day. I could name a thousand. They close. They move to Mexico or some other place. They make their product. They sell it to us. We end up with unemployment all over. We end up with no taxes. We end up with closed plants, and they make a fortune in the other countries.So here is the story, folks, and I say it whether it's cars, air conditioners. They want to close up and put our people out of work. Go someplace else build a new plant. And you know the friend of mine who said all -- that he's never seen. It's the eighth wonder of the world. He said the plants and factories that he is building in Mexico, "Donald, " he's the biggest, "is the eighth wonder of the world."I said: "What about the United States?" He goes, "Not so much." Nothing. It's so sad. It's so sad. So they want to build something and they want to have their new plant and they want to have non-U.S. workers. That's fine. Everything is fine. But they are going to pay a 35 percent tax every time that air conditioner or car comes across the borderAnd you know what? Nobody is going to move. Here is the story folks. Couple of politicians said, "I have never thought of that"; couldn't think of it. They have been working at this thing for 10 years, they never thought. So either they're taken care of or they're stupid, right? Or both?So here what's going to happen, though. Nobody is going to move. And if they do move, that's OK too cause we are going to make a fortune, OK? So its not the worst thing in the world.American Infrastructure Act -- $1 trillion in public- private infrastructure investments. This includes help for projects like expanding the Orlando Sanford International Airport. You like that idea? Why not? It's true. They have been looking to do it for a long time.End illegal immigration.I have to tell you, our infrastructure, folks, is a mess. We are like a third-world country. We have an infrastructure that's so bad, our roads, our highways, our schools, our tunnels, our bridges. Look at our bridges. Half of them have reports that they are in serious danger.We will build the wall and we will impose tough mandatory minimum -- remember this -- tough mandatory minimum prison sentences for deported illegal immigrants who try to reenter the country. They keep coming back and back and back.And if they know they go away for five years if we catch them, they're not coming back, folks How simple is it? How simple is it?The killer was out on bond. He was roaming free, despite many previous arrests and violence. And the word from other people that knew him, please do not let him go free. Shot this young man right in the face.The killer had been deported four times. We weren't supposed to take him back. We took him back. He had a massive lengthy criminal record. And people said please don't take this guy back. Dead. By the way, hundreds of stories, hundreds. I've spent a lot of time with Spencer's mom, Julie. A member of the Remembrance Project, one of the great groups of people, they are devastated. They are devastated.So you have carnage. This crime wave ends when Donald Trump becomes president. Believe me.Hillary Clinton, on the other hand, is totally for open borders -- there goes your country -- which would mean the destruction of our country. It would really mean that. You got to have to have borders. If you don't have borders, we don't have a country.She also wants to expand illegal executive amnesty, which would be really -- shred -- it would shred our Constitution.Restoring National Security Act, which will eliminate the Obama- Clinton defense sequester, allow us to rebuild our military and gives veterans -- how many veterans?The right to seek private medical care when they can't get proper service. The veterans are waiting on line for six, seven, eight days. They can't even get to see a doctor. Twenty-two suicides a day from our veterans. Do you believe that number? Twenty-two a day.Under my plan, not only will we modernize our Navy's cruisers, but we'll also invest in the technologies of the future being developed right here in central Florida. My plan also includes major investments in space exploration, also right here. You know what we call this place.Over the last eight years, the Obama-Clinton administration has undermined our space program tremendously. That will change. So many good things come out of it, including great jobs. And it will change very quickly under a Trump administration and it will change before it is too late.Do you ever see what's going on with space, with Russia and different places and us? We're like -- we're like watching. Isn't that nice? So much is learned from that, too.As a cornerstone of my policy, we will substantially expand public-private partnerships to maximize the amount of investment and funding that is available for space exploration and development.This means launching and operating major space assets right here that employ thousands and spur innovation and fuel economic growth. I will free NASA from the restriction of serving primarily as a logistics agency for low-earth orbit activity. Big deal.Instead, we will refocus its mission on space exploration. Under a Trump administration, Florida and America will lead the way into the stars. With a victory in November, everything will change. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days.In closing, we're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, and actually even bigger.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. They're choking our businesses to death. We're going to provide school choice and put an end to common core and bring our education local.We're going to support our great men and women of law enforcement.We will save our Second Amendment, which is totally under siege.And appoint justices to the Supreme Court of the United States who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Republicans have to finally get smart and come together. This is our last chance. This is bigger than me or any of us. It's about our country. This is about ending Obamacare. This is about the Supreme Court. This is about rebuilding our military and taking care of our vets, strengthening our borders and keeping our companies and jobs from leaving our beloved country.This is about restoring the rule of law, saving our Constitution, and keeping radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.I invite all Americans -- Republicans, Democrats, independents, first-time voters -- to join this incredible movement, a movement the likes of which has never been witnessed in this country before -- never, never, never been anything like this.Let's not blow it, folks -- November 8th. Get out sooner if you can. It's a movement powered by our love for America and our love for our fellow citizens. We're in a divided country. We're going to bring everybody together, not just the people here. We're going to bring everybody together. We're going to fix our inner cities.I'll tell you what, our inner cities are so, so bad right now. The danger, the crime, the lack of education, no jobs. African Americans are living in hell in our -- in the inner cities. I mean, they're living -- they're living in hell. You walk to the store for a loaf of bread; you get shot.We're going to fix our inner cities. We're going to fix.Remember this, remember this, just remember this, so important. For years, the Democrats have controlled the inner cities; some up to 100 years; some over 100 years; unbroken. I say to the African American community and to the Hispanic community: What the hell do you have to lose? I will fix it. We will make them good. We'll make them safe. We'll bring back jobs. We'll create good, good schools and education.I will fix it. We will fix our inner cities. Hillary Clinton's been lying about the inner cities for years. She's not going to do anything. Frankly, you want to know the truth? She doesn't have the energy to do anything.She doesn't have the energy. I'm going to fight for every citizen of every background from every stretch of this nation. I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.Once again, we will have -- right -- once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.Of, by and for the people.Folks, folks, we want to end Obamacare, we want to go to a plan that's so much better and so much less expensive, right? We want to have borders and we want people to come into our country. We welcome people, but they have to come in through a legal process. So, we're going to have a wall, but it's going to have a big, beautiful door and people are going to come into our country, but they're going to come in legally.And by the way, just in case there's any question, yes, Mexico will pay for the wall 100 percent.Think about, when you get in the voting booth, the United States Supreme Court. Just think about it because, I'll tell you what, you put the wrong justices on the Supreme Court and this country will never ever be the same. It will never be what you had hoped it would be, so just think about the United States Supreme Court. And we're going to bring -- so importantly, I got into this because of the border and the terror, but because of the border and because of trade.And the trade is so easy for me. It's so obvious what's happening when our companies are flocking out. We're going to fix our trade, we're going to bring jobs back to our country, including this area, right here, which has been devastated.Together, if we win on November 8th, and I really believe we will, we better.We will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again and we will make America great again.Thank you very much. God bless you. Go out and vote. God bless you.This is a lot of people. This is a lot of people. So that gentleman has real bravery, the recipient of the Congressional Medal of Honor. That's great stuff. Thank you very much. That was great.Thank you. In 14 days we are going to win the state of Florida and we are going to win back the White House.Early voting in Florida is underway, so make sure you get out and vote. We have a thing going on that they've never seen before. It's a movement. They've never seen anything like it before. We're going to win and were going to bring back a lot of good things, including common sense to the White House.Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track, we have no doubt about that. We are going to fix it. We are going to get our country right back on the right track.Together are going to deliver real change that puts America First -- America First. We haven't heard that term in a long-term, right? We don't put America First anymore. We are going to start, starting next year. As soon as we take office, it's America First again.That begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.As you know, it's just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double digit spike in Obamacare premiums, including more than a 100 percent increase in the great state of Arizona. They are going up over 100 percent, think of it.And everybody's going to be going up like that. They gave a number of 25 percent average. They know that's not true. They wanted to try and get out of, you know -- get out in front -- they know that's not true. It's much more.You're going to have 60, 70, 80, 90 percent increases in Obamacare. We are going to repeal it and we're going to replace it and we are going to get you great, great health care at a fraction of the cost.One in five Americans trapped in Obamacare will have only a single insurer to choose from. Lots of luck in that negotiation. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing I've ever seen in the world, where people wind up paying, their premiums double and their coverage is cut in half.Well, you know what? He's right. But he suffered that night, I guarantee you that.The Democrat governor of Minnesota said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Insurers are leaving, companies are fleeing, jobs are being lost, wages are being slashed. It's killing our businesses, it's killing our small businesses, it's killing individuals, and it's no good.Deductibles are so high, you can't use it, you'll never get to use it. Job-killing Obamacare is just one more way that our system is rigged, believe me. Remember Jonathan Gruber of MIT, the architect of Obamacare. He said they could pass Obamacare because the stupidity of the American voter, the stupidity -- he called the American voter stupid.The only stupidity was the stupidity -- and you know that -- and it is the stupidity of our politicians who rammed this monster down our throats. And I'll tell you, from the beginning I was against it. From the beginning I said it wasn't going to work, and it didn't work, it didn't work. And it's going to get worse, and Hillary Clinton wants to keep it. She wants to spend a fortune on it. She wants to keep it, and your numbers are going to get up, up, up, and is going to get worse, worse, worse. Repeal it and replace it.This morning I spent some time with the incredible employees at Trump National in Doral in Miami, which we own. I'm proud of the fact that I employ thousands and thousands of people all over Florida, and the state is an amazing state. But I'm also proud to provide them with benefits, including healthcare.Unfortunately, a small number of the people that work at Trump National in Doral, which is Miami, they are on Obamacare, a small percentage. And as I said this morning, they are having tremendous difficulty. In fact, a lot of them have said, can you take me off Obamacare. Should I do it or not? Should I take them off?Maybe I will. I will mention you folks when I do it. No, but it's a small group but it's a group that's having tremendous problems with Obamacare because of what's going on with the premiums. And what's going on with the deductibles. Again, they can't use it. But we are going to get these people help. We are going to get the people of the country help. We are going to start replacing it. We are going to have a great healthcare system in the United States, and a system that you can afford.So remember, if you vote for Hillary Clinton, she wants to double down on Obamacare and make it even more expensive and worse. Repealing Obamacare...She should be locked up. I'll tell you right now. What she's done -- what she's done, she ought to be ashamed of herself. And you know what? Our government ought to be ashamed of itself for allowing it to happen.Repealing Obamacare and stopping Hillary's health care takeover is one of the single most important reasons we must win on November 8th.We have the power in our hands in just 14 days -- 14 days. Can you believe this? I started -- it was a year and a half. Now we are down to 14 days. We had unbelievably tough, nasty primaries. We're proud to say they were the most difficult and toughest primaries, they say, in the history of politics. So we end up, and now we have a nasty, nasty election.But we have the facts on our side. We're going to bring back jobs, were going to get rid of Obamacare. We have so many facts that we are going to cut your taxes, she's going to raise your taxes, we are going to cut your taxes. We are going to save Social Security, she's going to cut your Social Security -- she's going to cut your Social Security, and your Medicare.We have the power to deliver justice for every American who has been victimized by rising crime, and for every worker whose job has been shipped to another country. And for every child trapped in a failing, failing, horrible government school. We have the power to rebuild the inner cities betrayed by Hillary Clinton and the Democrats in Washington.The African-American community has been betrayed, they've been betrayed. And we are going to get tremendous African-American votes and we're going to get tremendous Hispanic votes. These communities have been betrayed.We have a chance to deliver justice for every taxpayer tired of watching their money being wasted in Washington, and for every single -- look, you know the story -- every single voter, every single voter; what has happened to our country? Who wants to fix a rigged system that takes your jobs, takes your freedom, and takes your voice away from you?But together, we will defeat the rigged system and the corrupt media. There is nothing more corrupt than those people. Not all of them but most of them.They are a corrupt group. I'll tell you what, I went to the last rally, we had thousands and thousands of people, and I was watching one of these terrible people. See, I know. And I was watching and they were saying, well, the crowd isn't expected to be big. We had an airport hangar that they couldn't use because it was a massive hangar, but the crowd was so much bigger. We just moved them out onto the runways. We had some crowd.And look at this -- and we always have -- and by the way, all over the country we have. And you see what's going on? You see what's happening at the voting booths. You see what's happening. The lines are three blocks long. I can't tell you exactly, but I see a lot of Trump buttons, a lot of Trump hats, a lot of shirts. And we have a feeling, don't we, that they are going to be voting for Trump? I have a feeling.And I have to tell you, we didn't need to do this -- I didn't need to do this. I was on the other side. You know, I talked about the other side. Who knows the other side better than me? I was on the other side. I also knew, because I saw what was happening. I love our country, I love this country, and I had no choice, and I jumped. So I was an insider, and the day I announced, boy, did I become an outsider. Wow. Amazing. I became an outsider, and I love it. Because we're leading a movement the likes of which has never, ever been seen in this country. There's never been a movement like this.Even the pundits that hate me, they say there has never been an event like this in the history of our country, and we have to close it out on November 8th. And in your case, Florida, you can go tomorrow and do your thing. But you have to close it out. Otherwise, to me is a waste of time, energy, money...Thank you.You know, I tell the story about one of the pundits. Not a good guy, but that's OK. He said it doesn't matter whether you win or lose. What you've done has never been done in politics. There's never been anything like this. He said it doesn't matter. I said wait a minute, wait a minute. It totally matters. And I said, if I don't win, it will be a great waste, seriously, of time, energy and money, just a waste -- just a waste. So November 8th we have to win. It's one of the great movements of all time. Let's close it out. Let's knock out Crooked Hillary Clinton, crooked as a three dollar bill -- She is as crooked as a three dollar bill.Real change begins with ridding Washington of corruption. Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 emails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 phones disappear -- some with a hammer, and then told the FBI she couldn't remember, 39 separate times. She couldn't remember, you know, her memory is a little bit off.We've also just learned that one of the closest people to Crooked Hillary, with long-standing ties to her and her husband, gave -- listen to this one, folks. You know, we wonder how did she get away with this crime, when a four-star general, James Cartwright -- four-star -- one of the most respected men in the military, lied to the FBI once. He said he did it for national security purposes, and I can understand that. He lied one time to the FBI, and now they are going to put him in prison, perhaps for five years, just happened yesterday.So -- listen to this, though, gave -- essentially it's Hillary because the closest person in the world to Hillary and Bill is this person. They gave more than $675,000 to the campaign of the wife of the top official in the FBI, who oversaw the investigations into Crooked Hillary's illegal email server.Some think of this -- no, no, think -- this is -- you couldn't do a movie like this, nobody would believe it. So the FBI is -- and I have such great respect for the people of the FBI. They must be going crazy watching what's happening at the top. They must be going -- these are great people.So think of this. So the head of the FBI who was investigating her, has a wife who wants to run for some office. And they give her not $1,000, not $2,000, not $20,000, not $30,000 -- $675,000. That's big money -- that's big money. That's big money, which was a big percentage of the money she raised, $675,000 to run for office.Now this is the man that is leading the investigation into her. His wife gets $675,000, essentially from Hillary Clinton. Folks, what's going on here? What's going on? Our country is rigged, it's crooked, and it's broken. I'm telling you, what's going on?The criminal conduct of Hillary Clinton threatens the foundations of our democracy, and it really does. But we're gonna turn it around. We're gonna turn it around, we're gonna turn it around.A new day begins for America and it starts on November 8th. Get out and vote.I propose a contract with the American voter that will give government back to the people.It's the way it's supposed to be. My contract begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption that's all over the place. I want everyone in Washington to listen closely to the message I am delivering on your behalf. I want all of the special interests who are used to getting their way -- and I fully understand that -- to pay very close attention.I want the entire corrupt establishment to hear and heed the words we are all about to say. If we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C., and we are going to do what? Drain the swamp. It is so corrupt.So corrupt. But have we ever seen corruption like the $675,000? Have we ever seen -- you know, I kept saying, how did she get away with this? She got a subpoena from the United States Congress, and after -- not before, that would have been bad -- but after getting the subpoena, she deleted 33,000 emails. So she gets a subpoena from this tremendously high authority. She says, this is bad news. Get rid of all the emails.By the way, boxes of information and emails two weeks ago were also just found to be missing. You heard that, right? How is she entitled to run for the office of president? And by the way, this is part of the rigged system. The system is rigged, folks.Under my contract with the American voter, we are proposing a series of ethics reforms on day one to end government -- right? To end government corruption. Those who violate the law will be brought to justice. There will no longer be two sets of rules in America. I mean, look at General Cartwright, look at General Petraeus. His life was destroyed. For doing nothing by comparison to what this crooked person did.At the very core of my contract is the plan to bring back American jobs. We are bringing them back. We're going to stop the jobs from leaving our country. We are going to start making things again in America. Apple will start building factories and plants in this country, and we will make their products in the United States instead of China, Vietnam and all sorts of other countries.Right now we are living through the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. That's what's happening. They are moving to Mexico. It's a highway, one lane right into Mexico. They get our jobs, our factories, our plants, they get our people -- they get everything, they get the cash.I always say, they get the cash, we get the drugs and we get the unemployment. Not gonna happen -- not gonna happen.We will build the wall, don't worry about that. We will build the wall.Who is going to pay for the wall?That's not even close. And by the way, I met with the president of Mexico two months ago. He was a wonderful guy -- wonderful guy. We'll have no trouble. They can't understand how they get away -- you know, we have a massive trade deficit -- massive, with Mexico. A massive trade deficit. And when people say, well, they will never pay for the wall -- of course they will, because they are making so much money. They make it at the border, they make it every way. Because their politicians are sharper and shrewder than our politicians.You know, I went to an Ivy League school. I was a good student. And you know what? There's no better word to describe it. It's a horrible word to use. It's not terrible, but I hate to use it but there's no better word. Our leaders are stupid people -- they're stupid people, I'm telling you. Obama, all this guy does is campaign for Hillary, who he can't stand.And if you read what happened today with the server back and forth that he ended up knowing about, even though he said he didn't, it just came out on WikiLeaks he knew about it. And if you see now why -- you know, I'm trying to figure out why is he backing her over Biden? Did you see where Biden wants to take me to the back of the barn. Me. I'd love that. I'd love that, Mr. tough guy. You know, he's Mr. tough guy. You know when he's Mr. tough guy? When he's standing behind a microphone by himself -- he wants to bring me to the back of the barn. Some things in life you could really love doing.Our nation has lost -- and by the way, if I said that, they'd say, he's violent, how could he have done that? Did you see what happened the other day? It came out at our rallies -- we have the greatest rallies, the safest rallies, the greatest people. Is there ever a better place to be? Right?But we had some rallies that were rough. Well, we had some bad people, and I'd say they were bad people, and you know, the dishonest media would never say that. It came out that they paid thugs, thugs go to our rallies and beat people up. And they gave them $1,500 a day and an iPhone.Here's the good news. Not so easy to beat our people up. They found that out. It was actually a painful experience. Painful experience.But they paid $1,500, and the media doesn't report that. They didn't apologize to me. They were saying Donald Trump's rallies are out of control. They were putting people in our rallies to beat people up. Policemen with bad gashes on their head walking out. You saw it in Chicago. Walking out with blood pouring out of their head. These people were paid to do that. They should be imprisoned, these people. The people that organized it, that's organized violence. That's real violence. And you know what, nothing would happen. Can you imagine if we did it?And one other thing, Crooked Hillary was given the questions to a debate, right? You saw that? Donna Brazile got the questions and gave them to Hillary Clinton. Now what Donna Brazile did was very dishonest, and she should resign as the head of the DNC. She should resign. What Donna Brazile did was very dishonest, but did anyone hear Hillary say, listen, I got the questions to the debate -- with Bernie Sanders -- I got the questions to the debate. I feel very uncomfortable. I know it's wrong. Maybe I'd like not to have that particular question. Wouldn't that have been nice? But she's Crooked Hillary, so the chances of that happening are zero, folks -- are zero.And you don't hear about that. Did anybody hear the story? She got the -- I wonder if she got the answers and the questions to the debate I just had because we beat her very easily, she was beaten.And I'll tell you what. Did you see her after the debate? She was exhausted. You talk about low energy. I know some low energy people, but she's right in there.Our nation has lost one-third of its manufacturing since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Hillary Clinton. We've lost -- listen to this, you won't even believe this, and I have said for two weeks when I saw this number, it's a typo, it's got to be a typo. We have lost as a country 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, a Bill and Hillary -backed disaster.Listen folks, 70,000 factories. You wouldn't think that was even possible. I thought it was 7,000 or 700. I said, you made a mistake. It's 70,000. Under my contract we will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA, and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers and our companies.It's going to be America First. The next disaster on the horizon is the Transpacific Partnership, a nearly 6,000-page document that will drain our jobs and our freedoms. It will be another disaster. You cannot let it happen. If I'm president, it's not happening, folks. And we are gonna have a lot of trade, but we're not going to make these many multi-nation -- we're going to have one on one, on one, on one. We're going to have straight lines going right into different countries.And you know what? If they misbehave, if they do something bad, it's called a 30-day notice of cancellation. And you know what? During that 30 days they will come back and we will make a better deal. A Trump administration will stop the Transpacific Partnership. Hillary Clinton called the TPP the gold standard, and would approve 100 percent of it. Now during the debate she said she never called that the gold standard, right? But she lied, she lied. And during the debate, when I said line in the sand, right, the red line that our great president said, draw the line in the sand, right? Well, she said she wasn't secretary of State. She lied, she was, she was.That came up in the next debate. By the way, you lied about this. I'm sorry, I didn't mean it. She doesn't mean it. We won't let it happen because we will win on November 8th and we will protect every last American and every last American job.If we don't stop the TPP, we will lose our economic independence for good. It's a big, big problem. That's what's at stake in this election. This election has so many things going.Number one, lower taxes, less regulation, and we get rid of Obamacare and we come up with a plan that's so much less expensive.So what we are going to do are a few things. The tax reduction will give a middle-class family with two children a basic break of 35 percent. Families will be able to fully deduct the cost of childcare for their taxes. We will lower taxes on our businesses from 35 percent all the way down to 15 percent.We will become a jobs-generating machine. We will be so proud of our country again. We're not going to lose our businesses. And if they decide to go and they want to make their air-conditioning unit, they want to make their car, they want to send it through the border, which now will become a very strong border -- guess what, folks? Thirty-five percent tax. They're never going to leave, they're never going to leave.We will be a rich nation again, but to be a rich country we must also be a safe country. That's why my contract includes major investments in federal law enforcement efforts to dismantle criminal networks preying on our citizens, and that's what they're doing.I will also keep us safe from radical Islamic, right? Radical Islamic terrorists, radical Islamic terrorists. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS and unleashed death and suffering across the Middle East, and spread it into our country. We are taking thousands and thousands of people from Syria. We have no idea where they come from. We have no idea who they are. They are not properly vetted. You will see over the years what a mistake that is. You will see. She wants to now increase the high number -- already we are taking in thousands, tens of thousands -- she wants to increase that number by 550 percent. You put her in as president, you're crazy.Now she wants -- in her words -- totally open borders, there goes your country. There goes your country, which includes an open border with the Middle East. She wants to allow people to pour in. The Hillary plan would transform our country and leave us with generations of terrorism inside our shores.A Trump administration is going to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions, and will suspend the Syrian refugee program immediately. We have no choice, we have no choice.Let me state this as clearly as I can, if I am elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. We have enough problems, we have enough problems.I will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build the wall, we will build the wall. It is so necessary.And we will cancel all funding for sanctuary cities.Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. In January of last year, Grant Ronnebeck, 21 years old, was working at a convenience store, a wonderful young guy in Mesa, Arizona, when he was shot point-blank in the head by an illegal immigrant. The killer was out on bond, roaming free, despite a massive arrest record, and everybody saying, please, don't let him go free, please. And he killed Grant.In another incident, 25-year-old Spencer Golvach was sitting in his car at a stoplight after dropping off his girlfriend. An illegal immigrant in a pickup truck pulled up without notice, took out a gun, didn't say anything, looked at him, and shot him in the head, killed him immediately. The killer had been deported four times, had a lengthy criminal record, and people that knew him begged, please, don't let him in our country.I've spent time with Spencer's mom Julie. I've travelled the nation and met so many grieving parents whose children are dead because of our policies, headed by Obama and Clinton. The government failed these American families. Hillary Clinton betrayed these American families. They've been alone and suffering, abandoned by our nation's failed leaders. And that's what they are, they are failed leaders in every way.Look at our country, we don't win anymore. We can't beat ISIS, we can't win on trade, we can't win on healthcare, we don't win anymore. We are going to start winning in January, believe me.We're going to start winning again.Tonight we stand with these American victims and pledge an end to this long time nightmare of violence. I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers and the gang members. When I win, your long reign of crime and terror all over this country will come crashing to an end very quickly.Everything will change in November. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days. To sum up, we're going to have the biggest tax cut in history, and probably even greater. We can go back to Ronald Reagan, but I think it's even going to be a little bit bigger than that. We're going to have the biggest tax cut. And remember this. We are the highest taxed nation anywhere in the world. And you know what's going to happen? We are going to have a big tax cut and jobs are going to come pouring back.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We are going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We are bringing education local.We'll rebuild our military, take care of our vets. Our veterans will be finally taken proper care of. How many vets do we have here?A lot. We have a lot of vets. I love the vets. We're going to support the great men and women of law enforcement.We will save our Second Amendment, which is under siege, folks. It's under siege.And she's looking to do just the opposite. And I will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.I'm going to fight for every American in every part of this nation. I'm going to fight to liberate our citizens from violence and poverty and fear, and the pain of having your voice ignored by your government for so, so long. I going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.And I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. We're a divided nation, we're divided in so many different ways. We are a divided nation. We're going to come together -- finally we're going to come together again.I love you too. He's a rough sounding guy, but whoever that guy is, I love him. He's a rough looking, sounding guy. Who is that guy? He's a rough guy, but I do love him. I love everybody out here actually.Just imagine...... what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag.Once again, we will have a government of, by, and for the people.Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you very much. God bless you. Get out and vote. God bless you. Get out and vote, everybody. Thank you.Thank you. Beautiful!Thank you, Pastor. A great, great honor.And it's great to be here in Charlotte to discuss an issue that means so much to me, that's the issue of urban renewal, something you don't hear very much about, and the rebuilding of our inner cities.Today I want to talk about how to grow the African-American middle class and to provide a new deal for black America. That deal is grounded in three promises: safe communities, great education and high-paying jobs.My vision rests on a principle that has defined this campaign right from the beginning. And you've seen where we've come from and where we are right now. It's called America First.Every African-American citizen in this country is entitled to a government that puts their jobs, wages and security first. I'm asking today for the honor of your vote and the privilege to represent you as your president.And I will not let you down. You watch.Here is the promise I make to you. Whether you vote for me or not, I will be your greatest champion. We live in a very divided country. But I will be your greatest champion.Thank you.I have no special interest. I take no orders from donors or lobbyists. I've put a lot money into this campaign, believe me. I'll be in for over a hundred million dollars, that's a lot. I work for you and I work only for you.Our campaign is about change, optimism and the future. I'm asking people to break from the bitter failures of the past and to imagine the amazing possibilities for our future and our future together.Our opponent represents the rigged system and the failed thinking of yesterday. Hillary Clinton's campaign offers only the depressing pessimism that says this is as good as it gets and it's never going to get better. She's been doing this for 30 years and for 30 years it's only gotten worse. American politics is caught in a time loop. We keep electing the same people over and over and over.They keep making the same mistakes and they keep offering the same, old, lame excuses when nothing happens. You know that, I know that. Frankly, everybody knows that. The fact that our corrupt Washington establishment has tried so hard to stop our movement, we have a major movement, there's never been anything like it in this country.And this is so important to me what I'm saying today. I wanted a small group of very, very powerful, influential people from the African-American community and that's what I wanted to do. Enough with the rallies of 25,000 and 30,000 people. This was very important to me.And I just met with some of the finest people I've ever met, backstage. We had a great meeting. And I just want to thank those people right now. They are phenomenal people, so I want to say thank you very much.But it's just more proof that we represent the kind of change that arrives only once in a lifetime. This is a movement that's once in a lifetime, never going to happen again, never going to have another opportunity. Every day I'm out on the trail proposing fresh solutions and new thinking and every day the same people getting rich off our broken system tell us that we can't change and that we can't try anything new because it's not good for them.I have a message for all of the doubters in Washington: America's future belongs to the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.And it's time to extend that dream to every African-American citizen in this country. African-American citizens have sacrificed so much for our nation. They've fought and died in every war since the Revolution and from the pews and the picket lines they've lifted up the conscience of our country in the long march for civil rights.Yet too many...Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yet too many African Americans have been left behind, massive numbers have been left behind. Forty-five percent of African-American children under the age of 6 live in poverty. Fifty-eight percent of African-American youth are not currently employed. African Americans comprise roughly 13 percent of the population, yet make up 60 percent of murder victims under the age of 22. That's some number isn't it, though? Some number.In 2015, violent crime in Charlotte increased by 18 percent and it's expected to rise to 24 percent this year. In Chicago, nearly 3,500 people have been shot since January 1st of this year, that's not a very long time ago. Think of it, 3,500 people. The condition in our inner cities today are totally unacceptable and we have to fix them.The Democrats have run our inner cities for 50, 60, 70 years or more, uninterrupted. They've run the school boards, the city councils, the mayor's office and the congressional seats. Their policies have failed and they've failed miserably. They've trapped children in failing government schools and oppose school choice at every single turn.The Clintons gave us NAFTA, one of the worst economic deals in the history of any country.It's taken our jobs, it's taken our companies, it's taken everything, so much out of our country. And China's entry into the World Trade Organization, two deals that truly de-industrialized America, uprooted our industry and stripped bare towns like Detroit and Baltimore and the inner cities of North Carolina where we are really focusing.And by the way, you see the new polls coming out? We're really doing well, which is OK.We really are. Thank you. We're going to win North Carolina, I tell you. We're going to win Florida, too.Actually, we're going to win Florida, too. And we're going to win Ohio and we're going to win Iowa.Yeah, we're winning a lot of states. They're getting a little worried back there, I'll tell you. The media, they're saying, what's going on over here? You have to see, in Florida they have lines that are four blocks long trying to get into the polling booths. They've never seen that.And same thing in many other states that have started.This state has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since Bill and Hillary's NAFTA. Think of it, half. Decimating, by the way, and they have been decimated, decimating the African-American community and the African-American middle class, decimating. These jobs went to Mexico and other places.Politicians -- Democratic policies have also given rise to crippling crime and total violence. Then there's the issue of taxation and regulation. Massive taxes, massive regulation of small business and radical restrictions on American energy have driven jobs and opportunities out of our inner cities and, in many cases, out of our country.Hillary wants to raise taxes very, very substantially on everybody and on business and especially on small business, as high as 45 percent, which will only drive more jobs out of your community, out of our country and into other countries.One of the greatest betrayals has been the issue of immigration. Illegal immigration violates the civil rights of African Americans. That's what's been happening.No group has been more economically harmed by decades of illegal immigration than low-income African-American workers. Hillary's pledge to enact open borders made in secret to a foreign bank -- WikiLeaks...This WikiLeaks is unbelievable. What we've learned about her and her people, what they've said about her behind her back, but now it's not behind her back. She's got bad instincts according to John Podesta, Hillary Clinton has bad instincts. I wouldn't want my people saying those things. I wonder what they're saying.Is there some way we can check it out?No, they say terrible, terrible things about her. So, I mean, if they say that and they work with her all the time, why would we want her to be president?At the center of my revitalization plan is the issue of trade. Massive, chronic trade deficits have emptied out our jobs. Just look at what's happened to Baltimore, Detroit, Pittsburgh, Cleveland and right here in North Carolina. You know that for a fact. It's the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.If I'm president and the executives at Ford Motor Company announce they're moving their plants and jobs to Mexico, I will pick up the phone and make a very, very simple call. I don't know if it's presidential, but I'd rather do it myself. And who cares?Who cares?Thank you. Very fun, very nice. He's screaming, "Make that call! Make that call!" Takes me five minutes, I'd rather do it myself, it'll get done properly.I will tell those executives that if they move their factories to Mexico, I will put a 35 percent tax on their product, which in this case is small cars. You know, they're moving their small-car plants out of mostly Michigan, moving to Mexico. I mean, it's terrible. They're going to make their small cars. That's a big thing. It might be a small car, but it's a lot of business.Before they ship it back to the United States, they're going to pay a tax, 35 percent. You tell them and you know what? They're going to stay. They're going to stay. They're not leaving. They're not leaving. But nobody ever says that. The politicians don't say that because they're getting campaign contributions from these people and their special interests, so they're not going to say that.Me? I'm saying it. I'm doing what's right. I'm working for you, folks. We're going to get this thing right.We're going to get it right.Such a big problem. Our jobs are leaving us and people are being fired all over the country, our plants, our factories are leaving us. We won't let your jobs be stolen from you anymore. Not going to happen. It's so easy.When we stop offshoring to low-wage countries, we raise wages at home, meaning rent and bills become instantly more affordable. At the same time, my plan to lower the business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent will bring thousands of new companies onto our shores.It also includes a massive middle-class tax cut, tax-free child care savings account, s and child care tax deductions and credits, and a total simplification of the tax code.I will also propose tax holidays for inner-city investment, a new tax incentive to get foreign companies to relocate in blighted American neighborhoods. And they will do that, it will be worthwhile. It's called incentive, they will do it.I will further empower cities and states to seek a federal disaster designation for blighted communities in order to initiate the rebuilding of vital infrastructure, the demolition of abandoned properties and the increased presence of law enforcement so we have safety in our community. We need that. We need that, the safety is important.Some of our inner cities are more dangerous than some of the war zones that we're reading about and seeing about every night. We have to stop that.I will also pursue financial reforms to make it easier for young African Americans to get credit to pursue their dreams in business and create jobs in their communities. It's going to be beautiful.Such talent, there's such a potential talent out there. It's so incredible and it's totally being wasted, wasted by politicians that maybe don't want to see it happen.Dodd-Frank has been a disaster, making it harder for small businesses to get the credit they need. You folks know that. The policies of the Clintons brought us the financial recession through lifting Glass-Steagall, pushing subprime lending and blocking reforms to Fannie and Freddie, two friendly names, but they're not so friendly.It's time for a 21st Glass-Steagall and, as part of that, a priority on helping African-American businesses get the credit they need. We will also encourage small-business creation by allowing social welfare workers to convert poverty assistance into repayable, but forgivable microloans. Very simple, but something so good.Then there's the issue of public safety. Making our communities safe again will be a priority for the Trump administration. Safe.Thank you, I love you, too.Who is this?No, I means so many people, so many people -- I mean, you walk to the store to buy a loaf of bread, maybe with your child, and you get shot or your child gets shot. Gotta stop it, no good, no good. We need safety.I have heard and have listened to the concerns raised by African- American citizens about our justice system. And I promise that under a Trump administration, the law will be applied fairly, equally and without prejudice. There will be no prejudice.There will be only one set of rules, not a two-tiered system of justice like we have right now. You just see that with Hillary Clinton. I mean, think of it.Think of it, she deletes 33,000 emails after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress and she has no trouble. And in your community, you know what you're going through, can you imagine if you did that? Can you imagine if I did that? I think they'd reinstitute the electric chair.Forget about you, how about me? Would I be in trouble!It is so unfair. It is so unfair that she's even allowed to run for the office of president.And then you probably read, $675,000 went to the wife of the head of the FBI who was in charge of the investigation, to her campaign? No, no, is this too hard to believe? I mean, went to the head of the FBI's wife, who was in charge of the investigation of the Hillary Clinton email scandal. And then you wonder, gee, I wonder why she got off. That is a serious, horrible thing. Look, it's a horrible thing. It's not even believable. I have people, great, great lawyers, they can't even believe what's happening. The best evidence of unequal justice is that Hillary Clinton could violate so many laws, bleach and delete her 33,000 emails and, especially after the subpoena from Congress, lie to Congress, like to the FBI, put our national security at grave risk, I mean, our national security was put at unbelievable risk with what she was doing, and not even face so much as a minor fine.Now, think of it. A major general, a man, four-star general, that's about the top, General James Cartwright lied one time to the FBI. And he probably did it, he did it, in my opinion, for national security reasons, and he may go to jail for a five-year sentence. Think of it, five years, he may go to jail for five years. One time to the FBI; she lied looks like hundreds of times, hundreds.Hey, how about she couldn't remember 39 times? Well, each one of those 39 was a lie, right?Equal justice also means the same rules for Wall Street. The Obama administration never held Wall Street accountable.We will also police our streets, have to make our streets safe. I want every poor, African-American child to be able to walk down the street in peace and not be scared and not be hurt.The problem is not the presence of police, but the absence of police. We need really a great group of people to keep you safe, to keep us all safe, to keep us all safe. You know the murder rate in the United States, I don't know if you know this because the press never talks about it, is the highest it's been, think of this, in 45 years. Nobody knows that. The murder rate, highest it's been in 45 years.I will invest in training and funding both local and federal law enforcement operations to remove the gang members, drug dealers and criminal cartels from our neighborhoods.The reduction of crime is not merely a goal, it's a necessity for all of us. We will get it done. The war on police, urged on by my rival, is really reckless. What's happening is reckless and dangerous and puts African-American lives at risk. And all you have to do is look at the statistics and you see what's happening.We must work with our police, not against them. We're going to work together and we're going to have an amazing relationship because, you know, everybody wants the same thing, we all really want the same thing.Our immigration, that is, my policy on immigration is so simple. We will restore the civil rights of African American, Hispanic Americans and all Americans by ending illegal immigration. And yes, we will build the wall.We will build the wall.And we're going to stop the inflow, the massive inflow of drugs which is coming into your community more than any community, but coming into your community and poisoning our youth and poisoning many other people, but poisoning our youth. I will reform visa rules to give American workers preference for jobs. And I will suspend reckless refugee admissions from terror-prone regions that cost taxpayers hundreds of billions of dollars.A portion of the massive amounts of money saved by enforcing our laws and suspending refugees will be reinvested in our inner cities. Don't forget, many of these refugees are coming from Syria and other parts of the world. We don't know where they're from, who they are, what their thought process is. And they're being let in by the thousands and thousands and thousands. And Hillary Clinton wants to allow a 550 percent increase over what President Obama is allowing.We don't know what's going to happen. This is the story of the Trojan horse. This is your second Trojan horse, guaranteed. And I can tell you right now it's not happening, not with me, it will be ended, it will be ended.That will be ended. We have enough problems in our country. It's time to help the American citizens who have become refugees in their own country.Infrastructure will be another major goal. My contract calls for $1 trillion in infrastructure investment of which the inner cities will be a major beneficiary. We need something done. It's so bad. You look at your roads and you look at your everything, you look at your schools and hospitals, everything, it's so bad.I will also cancel all wasteful climate change spending from Obama/Clinton.We're giving billions and billions of dollars away, we have no idea for what, and others aren't doing so much -- believe me, they are laughing, I'll tell you, that's what they're doing, they're laughing at us -- including all global warming payments to the United Nations, billions of dollars.And listen to this. These steps will save $100 billion over eight years. And this money will be used to help rebuild the vital infrastructure, including water systems, in America's inner cities. You see Flint, Michigan what's happened there, it's horrible. I was there and it is unbelievable, horrible, incompetent politicians doing the wrong thing.School choice is at the center of my plan. Such a great thing.And by the way, we're going to terminate Common Core and bring education local.So important. Look, it's not working the way it is now. I don't know why anybody would even fight it. Well, we know who's fighting it. You know that.My proposal redirects education spending to allow every disadvantaged child in America to attend the public, private, charter, magnet, religious or home school of their choice.School choice is the great civil rights issue of our time. And I will be the nation's biggest cheerleader for school choice in all 50 states. What a difference it will make.I will also be establishing a commission which will include some of the tremendous people I met backstage today.Raise your hands. I mean, you people were so -- thank you -- so great, some great ideas.To tackle the school-to-prison pipeline and to shut that pipeline down and to create, so important, and to create a new pathway that leads from a great education instead to a great job. That's what we want.It is, it's school to prison.My plan will also ensure funding for historical black colleges and universities, more afford two and four-year college, and support for trade and vocational education.You know, I've got to school with many people, some totally brilliant at one thing, but not at all brilliant at others. But we all know this. We've had students that sat next to us in class and they were terrible students, but they were phenomenal at fixing a car engine. They were phenomenal at fixing a television set.They can take it apart blindfolded. And I can't do that. And you can't do that. But they were phenomenal at fixing things. We don't do that anymore. Remember, we used to have this great vocational education. They were talented, they were great. They were horrible students, and they were great, they can take a motor, they can take an engine apart blindfolded. And we have to bring that back. And that's what they love doing. That's what they love doing. And they'll do fantastically with it.Don't you think, right? So true. So we're going to get that going again.Finally today, my agenda includes the protection of religious liberty.It's great. Nice to see, it's very nice to see.That's something you'll never hear from Hillary Clinton, that I can tell you.The promotion of family and support for the African-American church, it's been a tremendous power in this country for so many years. This is just the beginning because I will never ever take the African-American community for granted, never ever.Unlike Hillary who does nothing, does nothing, for the Hispanics or for the African-American communities.It will be my mission to prove to this country that yesterday does not have to be tomorrow.The vicious cycle of poverty can be broken and great new things can happen for all of our people, great new things can happen. But to achieve this future, we must reject the failed elites from Washington who have been wrong about virtually everything happening for decades.Hey, they've been wrong about the wars. They've been wrong about jobs. They've been wrong about everything. And the question is, are they...... are they stupid? The question is, are they stupid or do they have a plan? I actually think for the most part they have a plan, but some are not too smart.And you're right about the swamp. Say it again.Right? You better believe it. Boy, that is...That is a -- you know, I said that about a week ago and I didn't like it that much, didn't sound that great. And the whole world picked it up.So it shows you what I know. It's crazy.Drain the swamp. We're going to drain the swamp of Washington. We're going to have fun doing it and we're all doing it together. And it is funny.Funny how things like that happen. I was listening the other day to a great singer, great, one of the great legends, and said that, you know, so and so didn't like it, didn't like it, became one of the greatest hits of all time. So drain the swamp, I didn't like it, now I love it, right?The people opposing us promised that passing NAFTA and opening up our markets to China would bring a new era of jobs and prosperity. That didn't happen. Instead, they brought only poverty and heartache and loss. The people opposing us are the same people who we've, and think of this, who've wasted $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East, we could have rebuilt our country twice, that have produced only more terrorism, more death, more suffering. Imagine if that money had been spent right here in our home.We've totally destabilized the Middle East. And if you think about it, $6 trillion and it was far better 15 years ago. So we've made it worse. We've spent $6 trillion, lost thousands of lives, you could say hundreds of thousands of lives, because look at the other side also, so we've lost hundreds of thousands of lives and we're far worse off than we were when we started. Who are the people that do this?And then we end the war in such a bad way that a vacuum is formed and we have ISIS. And that was the JV, the junior varsity, but now the JV is violent and vicious and ensconced in 32 different nations. And the one that gave us the JV now says how she's going to get rid of it. Not going to happen, folks. Just words, just words.Just words. For 30 years she's been talking; for 30 years only bad things happened for her. She tried to build democracy in Libya and she failed. She tried to build democracy in Iraq and she failed. She tried regime change in Egypt and that was a disaster. She pressed regime change in Syria and that failed. She tried a Russian reset that was laughed at, laughed at. Putin has no respect for her whatsoever.See, I'm not allowed to say it, but I'll accept it.Who said that?A star is born!Now, if I said that I'd be in big trouble. She tried an Asia pivot and that failed. Now Hillary Clinton wants to confront nuclear-armed Russia with a shooting war in Syria that could very well lead us into World War III. For what? She doesn't get it. She doesn't understand. Remember, her top person says she has bad instincts, she's got bad instincts.And by the way, we want to be so strong. We want to make our military so strong. We want to take care of our vets better than they've ever been taken care of.Peace through strength. Peace through strength. We have no choice, these are very vicious times. This is not a time to have a depleted military. We're not going to have that. We have the greatest people in the world in the military. We're not going to have that, but we are going to take care of our vets also.Finally, our opponents passed a health care law embraced by Hillary Clinton, over the furious objections of the American voter and most politicians. I mean, they didn't want it other than he lied and lied, you can have your plan, you can have your doctor, 28 different times, and enough Democrats went over to that side. They made a mistake. Obamacare  is now destroying our health care system. Premiums are skyrocketing double digits and are surging by more than 100 percent.And think of it, in the great state of Arizona, I love Arizona, it's going up 118 percent. Oh, but don't worry, you're going to catch that, too, for sure. Doctors are quitting, insurers are leaving and companies are fleeing. Every prediction they made about this law was a lie and I said it was going to be no good before it was ever passed.If we don't repeal and replace Obamacare, we will lose our health care system forever. We have to get rid of it, it's a disaster, it's too expensive, it doesn't work and you get no coverage.The deductible is so high that you'll essentially never use it. Now is the time to embrace a new direction.I've been very lucky and I've led a great life. Now I want to give back to the country which I love and which has been so good to me.I just left a hotel, beautiful, beautiful building. It was the Old Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C. And it's mine. And it was just built. It's right between the Capitol building and the White House, so this way I figure I'll get to Washington one way or the other right?Pennsylvania Avenue yet. But I'm very proud of it and I'm very proud of my children because we delivered it under budget and ahead of schedule, creating thousands of jobs, including construction.It will be one of the finest hotels anywhere in the world and a great symbol for our country for many years to come.I took two hours to fly into Washington to cut the ribbon with my children and then jump in the plane to be here with you, just did it.I wanted to be there for my children who worked so hard on the hotel, they worked so hard, in particular Ivanka in this case. And I always feel this, I feel this so strongly. Parents must stick and encourage and support their children.It would have been very bad. They work, work, work 24 hours a day, always working, and then you say I'm not going. It takes the heart out of them, right? Don't you think? I mean, they did a great job in the hotel and I told them so. And Hillary said Donald Trump took time off the campaign. Can you believe it? Here's a woman who goes home and she goes to sleep all the time. Think of it.Honestly, she has less energy than Jeb Bush.I mean it! I mean it!And the reason I bring him up, he didn't sign the pledge, so he's open game.So he signed the pledge, right? But he didn't honor it. How do you live with yourself, you know? He signs the pledge and he doesn't live it. So we figure, but how do you like that? And then she has a speech today, she criticized me for going to the opening of this building which was in and out. It's not the way life works.But I was also there for another reasons, the workers. They did a magnificent job. They were there.And without them, it could never have been built so quickly or so beautifully. The rebuilding we did at the Old Post Office is the rebuilding I want to do for our country. We're going to rebuild our country.I want to go into the inner cities, the poor, rural communities and the failing schools and I want to work on a national plan for total revitalization. We're going to be so proud of our country again.I'm tired of the excuses from our lame politicians. I'm tired of being told that it can't be done. I'm tired of people asking Americans to defer their dreams for another day, but they really mean for many decades.Enough waiting. The time is now. There is nothing we cannot accomplish. There is no task or project too great. There is no dream outside of our reach. Everywhere I go in this country, all I see is untapped potential waiting to be set free. And maybe the greatest of that potential is in the African-American communities.There's so much potential. But we will never realize that potential if we continue putting our faith in a broken political system that has let us down time and time again. We have to choose the more optimistic path. We have to choose to believe not in our politicians, not in these people that got us there, but to believe in ourselves and the future of our country. If we do that, anything is possible.So I'm asking America to join me in dreaming big and bold things for our future. Let's close the history books on the failures in Washington and let's open a new chapter of success and prosperity for everyone, especially now, especially for our African-American communities.And that's going to happen.I am very humbled beyond words to be the nominee of the party of Abraham Lincoln. A lot of people don't know that, it's the party of Abraham Lincoln.And it is my highest and greatest hope that the Republican Party can be the home in the future and forever more for African Americans and the African-American vote because I will produce and I will get others to produce and we know for a fact it doesn't work with the Democrats and it certainly isn't going to work with Hillary.Together, we will have a government of, by and for the people.And we will make America great again for all Americans. Thank you very much and God bless you everybody. A great honor to be here, thank you. God bless you. What an honor. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you.Thank you all.Thank you very much. Wow, look at this crowd!We're going to bring back your jobs that have been taken from you, that have been shipped all over the world, that have been shipped to Mexico. We are going to bring back your jobs and we are not going to allow these companies to go to Mexico and other countries and take your jobs with them.We're going to stop the jobs from leaving North Carolina. We're going to start making things again in America. We are going to make things again.The jobs theft, that's what it is, will end the day I start the presidency, believe me.It's going to be America First again, remember that, America First. You don't hear that anymore. It's not America First now, that we know, that we know.Early voting is underway, so make sure you get out and vote.And by the way, North Carolina, we're doing really well. You see what's happening.The dishonest media back there, they're going, what is happening?They're seeing the lines of people, they're seeing crowds like this. Look at this crowd. Now, they don't mention the crowds ever, but they see them, they know what's going on. They look at Florida. Have you seen Florida, what's going on?They have lines going to the voters polls, to the booths, that are four blocks long in Florida. And there are an awful lot of red hats and buttons and Trump shirts.And generally speaking, those people do not vote for Crooked Hillary Clinton.What a group! I love North Carolina. You know, I have a great property near Charlotte, very successful. That means I pay a lot of people, I pay a lot of employees. But I'll tell you what, we have great people. This is a great, great state and we're going to make it even better. We're bringing back your jobs.Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track. That's an easy one to figure, isn't it? We're going to fix it and we're going to get our country back on the right track and it's going to happen very quickly.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing the disaster known as Obamacare.That one's not even close. And Hillary wants to double-up and triple-up. What a disgusting situation. And it was no good the day it was conceived. Remember Jonathan Gruber of MIT, he said the American people are stupid to have approved it. Unfortunately, they had an iPhone going, you know, that's nice.It has just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double-digit spike in Obamacare  premiums, including more than a 118 percent increase for people in the great state of Arizona. So you think you have it bad, in Arizona they're up to 118 percent. Don't feel bad, you're going to get yours, too. You're through the roof also.But think of it, numerous places over 100 percent. Even Bill Clinton admitted that Obamacare is, quote, "the craziest thing in the world" where people wind up with premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. Job-killing Obamacare  is just one more way the system is rigged. The system is rigged, folks. It's all rigged.So when Gruber made that statement, a lot of things happened and a lot of people started looking at Obamacare very closely. And I will tell you, Hillary Clinton came out and she wants to double-down and make it worse. She's going to -- it's going to be so much worse. Frankly, can we live another four years with another Obama? I don't think so. I don't think so.And I think she'll be worse. And remember the Supreme Court. Just put it in the back of your mind, Supreme Court. But we can't take another four years of Obama and that's what we're getting with Hillary.More than half-a-million North Carolinians have been forced into Obamacare. They didn't want it. They were forced. Premiums have gone up in North Carolina by double digits, and this year they're going to go up at a record number. It is catastrophic. More than 250,000 people in North Carolina are losing their health plans next year. Ninety-five of the state's 100 counties will only have one insurance company to buy from. Good luck in that negotiation, folks. They are in a very good position. Hey, who's that carrier? I want to know, I want a piece of that insurance company.Drain the swamp! Look at that sign. Drain the swamp in Washington, D.C. Look at that.You know, I said to somebody the other day and even today, drain the swamp, we put it in about two days ago, I said drain the swamp. I didn't like it, I didn't like the expression drain the swamp in Washington. So I said it three days ago, the place went crazy. I said, you know what? I'm starting to like that expression and now it's, like, trending all over the world, drain the swamp in Washington, so we like that expression.Obamacare will destroy the economy and health care of North Carolina if we don't stop it fast and I mean, like, immediately. Repealing Obamacare  and stopping Hillary Clinton's health care takeover is one of the most important reasons we must win on November 8th. We have to.And next, we're going to rid Washington of corruption. It is corrupt.What about the Hillary Clinton fiasco? Did you ever see anything -- what about all the WikiLeaks? Hillary bleached -- listen to this, we all know, but we're going to say it because nobody has ever gotten away with crimes, and I mean crimes, like Hillary Clinton has gotten away with.Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after getting a subpoena. She got a subpoena from the United States Congress. She said, whoa, we have a problem. She deleted and bleached, nobody bleaches, sophisticated people said we've never heard of it. You know why? Because it's such an expensive process. So she deleted and she bleached 33,000 emails. She lied to Congress under oath. She lied to the FBI. She made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.Who here has made your phone disappear by hammering the hell out of it? Oh. We've got two. Anybody else? I want to know. Sir, what business are you in? Wait until you find out the business he's in.And remember, with the FBI she couldn't remember 39 times. Oh, that means 39 lies, right? She couldn't remember 39 times. She can remember other things, but not this. The Clinton crew gave more than $675,000 to the wife of the deputy FBI director overseeing the investigation into Hillary's illegal server.That's all right, leave him alone. That's all right. You know the great thing about that? We have a protester. By the way, were you paid $1,500 to be a thug? Where's the protester? Where is he?Was he paid? All right. You can get him out. Get him out.Out.Folks, did you see where, through WikiLeaks, we found out that Clinton was paying people $1,500 plus an iPhone to go out and be violent at our rallies? OK?It's a disgrace. It's a disgrace. But I'll tell you what, they found our people are very tough. They found that out.So we also found out that President Obama in the emails knew about the server, even though he said he didn't.The criminal conduct of Hillary Clinton threatens the foundations of our democracy. There has never ever been a situation like this. And the emails are just a part of it.We're going to turn it all around.I propose a contract with the American voter that will give the government back to the people. My contract begins with a plan to end the rampant government corruption. And it is corrupt and she's perhaps the most corrupt person ever to run for the office of president. She shouldn't be allowed to run. She shouldn't be allowed to run.And by the way, remember just recently, again, the emails, WikiLeaks, Donna Brazile got the questions for a debate, got the questions for a debate, gave the questions to Hillary Clinton. Donna Brazile is under a lot of pressure. Hillary Clinton, did she say, oh, gee, I illegally got the questions to the debate, call up and have a little conference and say, I'm sorry, I'm a very honest person, I can't do this? No. They only found out about it months later. You're dealing with a very, very dishonest person. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to hear and to heed the words I am about to say. If we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.That includes a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.At the very core of my contract with the American people is a plan to bring back American jobs. We've had it, we're going to bring back our jobs. And you really know what I'm talking about in North Carolina because you're one of the greatest victims of all. We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. The greatest, think of that, the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Not just here, look at New England, look at New York state, look at Pennsylvania and Ohio, look everywhere.North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. Can you believe it, half, half of your jobs? A deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Crooked Hillary.Remember, every time you see a closed factory or a wiped out community, the Clintons really did this to you, NAFTA was a disaster. But listen to this. I always say it looked like a typo, they made a mistake, it can't be possible. We've lost 70,000 factories. Now, I thought they meant 700 factories, maybe 7,000. We've lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster.The trade policies of Hillary Clinton have been devastating for workers, unions, companies and communities throughout North Carolina. Stanley Furniture moved its production from Robinsville, laid off 400 workers and moved their jobs to Southeast Asia in 2010. Congratulations, Southeast Asia. They wouldn't be doing it if I was president. Believe me, when they say we want to send our product, whatever the hell they make, we want to send our product back into the United States, I said we'd love to have your product, 35 percent tax, let's see if you move. They wouldn't be moving. They wouldn't be moving.They wouldn't be moving, folks. And the politicians could have done that, but most of them are taken care of by special interests and donors and the other half are stupid people, they don't know what they're doing.Flex global operations closed its plant in Charlotte, laid off 255 workers and moved their jobs to where most of the place goes, they moved their company to a place called Mexico. And that was this year. Daimler Trucks of North America laid off 2,771 workers, that's a lot, in North Carolina in 2016 after opening a major plant in Mexico.Steelcase shifted its production to Mexico, laid of 264 workers in North Carolina in 2014.Leviton -- I buy those switches, I'm not going to buy them anymore, I didn't realize this; I buy a lot of Leviton switches, I'm not buying them anymore -- closed its light switch factory, laid off up to 200 people and moved their jobs to Mexico in 2009.Dell closed its plant in Winston-Salem and laid off up to 1,000 employees and moved their jobs to Mexico and other countries.I have a friend who builds plants. He is, I believe, the biggest in the world. And I said, how are we doing? He said, Donald, we're doing fine. How's your company? Unbelievable. I said, how's this country, our country, the country we love, and he loves this country, he's an American, how's it doing? Not good. I said, well, how are you doing well? He said, I am building the greatest plants anywhere in the world, in Mexico. I said, oh, that's great, that's wonderful.Folks, we're going to turn it around and it's going to turn around so fast. OK? It's going to turn around so fast.That has been a one-way highway, the money, the jobs, the plants, the factories leave our country. We get unemployment and drugs. So we get the drugs, we get the unemployment, they get the cash, the jobs, the plants. What a disgrace.And you know what? People don't even know, it's very complex, but they're under a VAT tax system. So it's about a 17, almost 17 percent. So what happens is every time we make a deal, because we have a different system, we pay 17, they pay nothing. So the agreement has been defective for years and nobody ever changed it. That's why you never see anybody coming the opposite way. It's always jobs moving to Mexico. You never see because it's a defective contract. They signed a defective contract just there.You're in a 17-point disadvantage before all of the other disadvantages kick in. Does that make sense? It's a defective contract and nobody did anything about it for years. Oh, are we going to do something about it. It's going to be done.And I met, as you know, two months ago I met with the president of Mexico, nice guy, nice guy, and we're going to have a very good relationship with Mexico. Oh, we're going to build the wall, don't worry about it, this guy, believe me, we're going to build it. We have to build a wall. We have to build the wall.We've got to stop the drugs from coming into our country and poisoning our youth. We're going to build the wall 100 percent, Mexico's going to pay for the wall. They don't know it yet, but they're going to pay for the wall, believe me.But their leaders, their politicians are smarter and sharper than our politicians. We use people to negotiate our deals, the biggest deals in the world, like with China. What China does to this country is unbelievable. We use political hacks to do our negotiating. They have the smartest people. They have, like, this pyramid, right? From the time they're in first grade they take the smartest, the smartest, the smartest. By the time they get to the top, you're dealing with very smart people. Unfortunately, they're not dealing with very smart people and we have a massive, almost $500 billion trade deficit with China. We have an $800 billion trade deficit with the world.That's all going to end, folks. We're going to have free trade, but we're going to have fair trade. It's going to be fair trade. It's going to be a two-way street.And with NAFTA if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers and for our companies, 100 percent, 100 percent.And if companies like Carrier want to fire their workers, move to Mexico or other countries, you know, they're in Indianapolis, they fired all of their workers. And it was right around the time of the primary. And boy, I'll tell you, those workers were great. They followed me, they went to so many of our speeches. And remember, that was going to be the great firewall, that was going to be where they were going to stop Trump.Now, I had Bobby Knight helping me. That's awfully good in Indiana, the great Bobby Knight.But we won Indiana in a landslide. And by the way, speaking of Indiana, Governor Mike Pence, great guy. Great.Great guy. Good choice. It's an important choice. Did we pick better than her, by the way?I watched their debate. That one wasn't close and neither was mine with Hillary. And we beat her badly. We beat her badly.And you saw Biden today, right? Oh, I'd like to get Donald behind the gym. Oh, I dream about that kind of stuff. You know, Mr. Tough Guy. He's a real tough guy, folks. I would dream about that.So they ship their products back into the United States. See, he ought to be tough like that on trade. He ought to be tough like that on so many other things where we're getting ripped off. He ought to be tough like that in dealing with the Veterans Administration because our veterans are being treated so unfairly.So we'll put on a tariff. And believe me, they're not moving. They're not. Companies like Apple will start making their iPhones and other products inside the United States. You watch, you watch.You watch, everything is in China and Vietnam. I mean, you know, they say Apple, isn't that wonderful, but they make everything outside. They will start making product and so will others of our great country. We will get companies to make product inside the United States. Wouldn't that be nice? And by the way, no shipping, no this, I mean, there are a lot of advantages, but we're going to get it.As part of our plan to bring back American jobs, we will lower taxes on our businesses from 35 percent down to 15 percent, going from the highest-taxed nation in the world to one of the lowest.I'd like to make it the lowest, but you can only go so far. Maybe someday.We will be a rich nation once again. We will put so many people back to work. But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country.Crooked Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS and unleashed death and suffering across the Middle East. And now the terrorism is spreading into our country. She wants, in her words, to have totally open borders which would destroy America's middle class and, by the way, destroy our country when you have open borders. You know, 600,000 people could be -- if you look at it, the kind of numbers that they're talking about, millions more African-American incredible workers will be put out of work. They are so badly affected by the policies of Obama and Clinton. And I don't even know if they realize what they're doing.Hillary wants to increase Syrian refugees by 550 percent coming into this country.That's on top of the thousands and thousands and thousands already coming in. And these are people we have no idea who they are, where they come from. Believe me, folks, we are not doing that. The refugee plan would leave us with generations of terrorism, radicalism and extremism inside of our shores. A Trump administration is going to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions of the world and we'll suspend the Syrian refugee program.And let me state this as clearly and nicely as I can. If I'm elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.I will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build that wall that you're talking about.We'll also cancel all funding for sanctuary cities. Horrible.Hillary strongly supports sanctuary cities, like the one that killed Kate Steinle, San Francisco. Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants.In January of last year, Grant Ronnebeck, 21 years old, magnificent young man, was working at a convenience store in Mesa, Arizona when he was viciously murdered in cold blood, shot point blank by an illegal immigrant with a long and vicious criminal record. People said please don't let him into society. They did, he killed Grant violently.Another American murdered in cold blood was 25-year-old Spencer Golvach. He was sitting in his car at a stoplight after dropping off his girlfriend on his way home. An illegal immigrant in a pickup truck pulled up to him beside him and shot Spencer directly in the head. No warning, no talking, no nothing, no reason. The killer had a lengthy criminal record and had been deported four times. So many people said don't let this man out, get him back to his country, get him out of our country. The Obama administration refused to do it.I've spent a lot of time with Spencer's mom, Julie. I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers and the gang members. When I win, your long reign of crime and terror will come crashing to an end quickly.And we have to pay tribute to our great people in law enforcement. These are great people...... that are having a hard time right now. And they know where these people are, by the way. When you hear the gang members, the drug lords, all of these. They know, they can tell you in one minute who should go, who doesn't have to go. They know. We've got some bad ones.We'll also rebuild our badly depleted military. We have the greatest people in the world.But we have a badly depleted military. And we can't beat ISIS. Can you imagine Mosul, right, Mosul? I've been saying this for a long time. And, you know, somebody like Hillary Clinton said, well, he says he doesn't want to go into Mosul. Look, folks, first of all, Mosul was already captured. It was the way we got out of Iraq. We shouldn't have gone into Iraq and we shouldn't have gotten out the way we got out. But that's why we're going in now a second time.But why can't we do it, like, secretly, right? Why can't we do this quietly? I've been reading about we are going to attack Mosul now, and you have, too, for three months. And I'm saying, you know, the element of surprise, right, right? General George Patton, the element of surprise, he didn't talk. He got the job done; even after he got the job done he didn't talk. He didn't want to talk to anybody. The reporters wouldn't like him very much, he was a little rough with reporters.You know, these are the most dishonest people. I'm telling you, these are the most dishonest people on earth.And they are going crazy because they put out these phony polls and then the real polls come out. So today, Bloomberg has a poll, they're very disappointed, Trump is up in Florida by 2 points.And the lines are a lot more than -- even 2 points is forget it -- the lines are through the roof. The same thing's happening here. You see what's happening here. The lines, the lines, those beautiful, beautiful lines, right? It's happening all over the country, happening all over.But they're very dishonest people. General George Patton was rough, he was a rough guy, but his people would die for him. But he was a great general. He wouldn't give notice we are going to Mosul in three months, we will attack, we will attack.And some clown from some institute came out today, why is Donald Trump saying that about Mosul? Hey, folks, I will put my thought process against these people anytime. He's saying it's OK the way they did it. Well, it's turning out, I just saw it on television, it's turning out that Mosul is very, very tough to get. And the reason they wanted to get in is because the leaders of ISIS, they felt, were living in Mosul.But here's the thing. They were supposed to be the JV, according to Obama, remember? They started out as a little group, a little band of men, in this case men, they started out as a little band of men, the JV became a horrible, horrible worldwide threat and now they are ensconced in 32 nations.And then I hear Hillary Clinton, who I call a very low-energy person, she's going out, no, she's going out and saying, what does Donald Trump know about this? Look, folks, when you're looking to take out the people that are leaders of ISIS and they're ensconced in Mosul, you don't announce it three months before you attack. You use the element of surprise and you knock the -- you say it, what's the word?And you knock the hell out of them!Boy, oh, boy, what a bunch of amateurs. We have amateurs in the White House. We have amateurs as leaders. And honestly, I think there's so many things, whether it's the horrible trade deals, the loss of these jobs. We have no growth in this country. You see that, you see the numbers. Our jobs numbers were announced last week, they were anemic, anemic.No matter what we have, our military's depleted, our vets aren't taken care of, we have stupid people leading this country. They're stupid people. You know, I'd like to use another word. I went to an Ivy League school. I was a very good student. But there's nothing better than the word "stupid " to describe these people. I mean, there's just no better word; I know many words.But we're going to change that. North Carolina will be a major part of this rebuilding effort with new, advanced fighters flying from Seymour Johnson Air Force Base...... Marine battalions at Camp LeJeune...... and here's a place that a few of you may have heard of, and a very, very beautiful, replenished Army out of Fort Bragg.North Carolina is also the home to more than 750,000 veterans. And I told you, the veterans are loving Donald Trump. They do polls on the veterans, I'm through the roof. We're going to take care of our veterans for once and for all. It's not going to be talk. We're going to take care of our veterans, our greatest people.We're going to give our veterans the right to see their doctor of their choice. They're not going to be waiting in line for nine days, dying, 22 suicides a day. These are our great people. Twenty-two, think of that. That's an impossible number also to even conceive, 22 suicides a day. They wait in line for four days, five days, six days to see a doctor. A simple procedure or a simple prescription could solve their problem. They don't get to see the doctor. So they're going to have the right, if this happens, to walk across the street, see a private doctor, go to a private hospital or a public hospital, get themselves fixed up, and the United States will pay for the bill. And it's the cheapest thing we can do and it's the best thing we can do.The veterans love Trump and Trump loves the veterans, believe me.You better get out and vote! You better get out and vote, veterans, because we're dealing with a bad person.We will also change our foreign policy. And by the way, speaking of the veterans, she said the veterans are being serviced just fine.You know that, right? She is going to do nothing for the veterans. And she's going to hurt your Social Security big league, but she is going to do nothing for the veterans.Hillary Clinton gave us ISIS and threw the Middle East into turmoil. Do you notice? She gave us ISIS, she did, her and Obama, now she's telling you I am going to get rid of ISIS. What the hell did you let them do this in the first place for? She's been there for 30 years. It's all talk with her, nothing ever happens, Libya, Syria. New York state is a disaster. She said she was going to bring back jobs, it turned out to be just the opposite.So now she wants to start World War III in Syria against the nuclear-armed Russians. Great, great. You ever notice how tough she talks about Putin? Somebody said to me today, a very smart person, a great businessperson, called up and said, you know, I heard her saying about Donald Trump and Russia. First of all, I don't know Putin, have no business whatsoever with Russia, have nothing to do with Russia. And, you know, they like to say every time WikiLeaks comes out, they say this is a conspiracy between Donald Trump and Russia. Give me a break.You know, number one, they don't even know it's Russia. Who knows? It might be Russia, could be China, could be, if you remember Sony, it could be North Korea, it could be a lot of places. But, you know, she always likes to -- in the meantime, she gave Russia 20 percent of the uranium, right? She gave them 20 percent of our uranium -- you know what uranium's used for -- for a massive payment. And Podesta has some big deal in Russia, and they always like to talk about Trump.But we learned a lot about them from WikiLeaks. We learned in the emails she said and she has terrible, terrible instincts, OK. So John Podesta, her top person, who I wouldn't want working for me -- I'll tell you, he says so many bad things about her. Who minds -- do you mind if any of your people, like you have a top job and you have a person and they call you, like, not a smart person, you have bad instincts, you don't know what you're doing. I mean, I have a couple of these. But John Podesta said terrible things about her.But one of the things he said that was to me the worst, that she has bad instincts. So she's got bad instincts, from her top person. Bernie Sanders says she has bad judgment. So who wants a president with bad instincts and bad judgment, by the people that know them the best? What are we doing here?All of the following quotes come from either Podesta or Colin Powell. Look, he's another guy. He did a great job, right, with Iraq. There's a guy, Colin Powell, he did a great job with Iraq. They wanted to get away with it. That was one of the quotes. They wanted to get away with it, you know, the whole email scandal. Her instincts are terrible. Apologies are like her Achilles heel. These are all statements made about her. She's totally programmed, she looked programmed. She has no opinion. Sometimes that would be a good thing in her case. Unbridled ambition and greedy.Everything Hillary Rodham Clinton touches she kind of screws up. Oh, that's wonderful. That makes us feel good, right? To all Americans I say it is time for new leadership. Let's get the Clintons out of our lives.Everything will change in November. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. We will eliminate every unnecessary job- killing regulation which is destroying our businesses. We will provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We're going to bring education local.We will rebuild our very depleted military and we will take care of our vets.We will support the men and women of law enforcement.We're going to save -- this is a big one for North Carolina -- we're going to save our very, very troubled Second Amendment. It is under siege.And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Today I was in Washington, D.C. where I just finished building, this is before I started running for president, OK, just so you understand, but I have a great, great, the best, probably the best piece of land in Washington, one of the great pieces of land, the Old Post Office. And I'm very proud of it, it's a great building. We've built it into a hotel. It's on Pennsylvania Avenue, right between the Capitol building and the White House, right smack in the middle. If you're in the real estate business there's an expression, always try and get the post office because they were there first, it's the best location. So it's this incredible building. And we had the opening of Trump International Hotel.Now, I've been campaigning, and you've seen that. In fact, even the press is amazed. They are exhausted. They follow me, seven stops, eight stops, five stops, three or four of these a day with crowds. Last night we had 25,000 people in Florida, we had 19,000, we had 12,000.We have the biggest crowds because you know what? We have a movement like nobody has ever seen before. Nobody.The pundits, Bill O'Reilly, but many of the pundits said it's the single-greatest political phenomena they've ever seen.So I built this building. Now, you have to understand, I never, practically, go home. I work all the time. Hillary goes, makes a little speech, she reads her teleprompter, gets in a plane, goes home and starts sleeping for three days.So you know what I thought I'd do? My kids were in charge, Ivanka, Don and Eric, good kids, they're good kids.So I thought I'd take an hour or two and run in and cut the ribbon with them at the building. To show you how low she is, she comes out and says Donald Trump took time off from the campaign to open a hotel. OK.Now, she'll do one stop. I'm telling you, she wants to sleep all the time. This is not what we need. This is not what we need as a president. She's a very low-energy person. I saw it in the last debate. I think she did very poorly in the last debate and then she was so exhausted she barely made it to the car. That's not what we need to negotiate with China, OK? That's not what we need.But she said I took time off. And I'm saying to myself, isn't that a terrible thing where we're out working at many, many more stops, many more everything, don't go home, she's home all the time, she takes many days off, and then she said that.Then she said I used illegal immigrants to build the building, except I didn't use one, for two reasons. Number one, I didn't want to. And number two, I'm running for president, why would I do that? So I went with the eVerify system. We didn't have one illegal immigrant on the job. Everybody knows it. Nobody was hired -- and believe me, we could have hired plenty, they're all over the place, they are all over the place and I would have saved probably a lot of money, right? But I have the eVerify system. I didn't hire one illegal immigrant to build Trump International Hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue.And then I see her and then I see Crooked Hillary saying he used illegal immigrants. They will say anything, folks.But the reason I did are two things. When you have good children, you have children, good or bad, you want to support your children. My children worked very hard on that project, I wanted to be with them to cut the ribbon.But the other reason, the other reason I went there is because it was brought in under budget and ahead of schedule, something this country never hears about.We have a hospital, a V.A. hospital where it was supposed to cost, like, $600 million and it's going to cost $1.4 billion. But that's standard. Roads, of course, double, triple, quadruple. Bridges that are a -- everything's a disaster.So I went in and I said, you know what, I'm going to do it. And we built it under budget and ahead of schedule. And that was the name of the news conference, under budget and ahead of schedule. And we built a great hotel. And I wanted to be with my kids to salute them and to congratulate them on doing a great job.I then flew in to another great section of North Carolina. We had another great talk and we've had a lot of fun. But I just wanted to set the record straight. All eVerify, no illegal immigrants, no help in that regard, and we have a great thing.And including construction, we put literally thousands of people to work. And that's a great thing because that's what our country needs. But remember, under budget and ahead of schedule, OK?So Americans are tired of being told what we can do, what we can't do and what can't be done. That's all we hear. They're tired of being asked to defer their dreams to another day and to another decade, which is really what they mean. Everywhere I go in this country, all I see is untapped potential waiting to be set free. And a great example of that is the African-American community. They've been treated so unfairly, so unfairly.And we're going to fix our inner cities, we're going to fix them. African-American communities, Hispanic communities, we're going to work on the inner cities because what Hillary and the groups have done, give me your vote, give me your vote, and then after the election see ya, I'll see you in four years. That's all they do. We're going to fix our inner cities. We're going to bring jobs back to our inner cities and safety back and education back to our inner cities. And we're going to do great with the African-American community. We're going to do great with the Hispanic community in the election.But we will never realize that potential if we continue putting our faith in a broken political system that has let us down time and time again. Let's close the history books on the failures in Washington and let's open a new chapter of success and prosperity.I'm asking all Americans to join me in dreaming big. Remember when we used to dream big? We don't dream big anymore. We want big, bold dreams for our future.I'm going to fight for every American in every part of this nation. I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.I'm going to fight to bring us together as one great nation. We are a divided nation right now. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag. Just think about it.Once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people. Together, we will make America wealthy again. Together, we will make America strong again. Together, we will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you very much. Get out and vote. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.Wow, tremendous. Wow. Thank you very much. Thank you. Unbelievable. People don't know, I worked in Ohio, did you know that?And I had a great experience.And if I didn't have a great experience starting out when I was very young, maybe I wouldn't be here right now, who knows? You need that, it was great for confidence also. In 12 days, we're going to win Ohio...And we are going to win back the White House.A brand new poll from Remington Research -- highly respected -- has just a few minutes ago come out, and in Ohio we are right now, four points up.Early voting is underway, so make sure, get out and vote, we don't wanna -- we don't wanna give this away.You know, we have a movement going on like they've never seen before in this country. Drain the swamps, you've gotta a "drain the swamp " sign back there, we're going to drain the swamp, believe me.But this is a movement like they've never seen in this country before, and every place is packed, and the greatest people on Earth, and we're going to turn our country around, we're going to turn it around fast.Seventy-five percent of the people think our country is headed in the wrong direction. We know it's headed in the wrong direction. We're going to fix it, we're going to take our country back, and it's going to be put very quickly on the right track.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.It's just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double-digit hike in Obamacare, you see that.Including premiums like in the great state of Arizona, where they're going to go up at 116 percent. Don't worry, you'll be there very soon, unless I win in which case you're not going to have to worry about it.Even Bill Clinton admitted that Obamacare is quote, "The craziest thing in the world, where people wind up paying their premiums which double, and their coverage is cut in half."Job killing...Job killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged. Remember the name Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare?He said they could pass Obamacare -- when he didn't know he was being recorded -- he said they could pass Obamacare, because the stupidity of the American voter will allow it to take place.The only stupidity was that incredible stupidity shown by our politicians when they forced this bill through over the furious objection to many politicians, in all fairness, many, many politicians, but really the American people. And it was very, very sad. And in all fairness to the Democrats, had our President not lied 28 times -- remember, you can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor, it passed by this much -- they would not have gone for it. But they believed him too, like everybody else believed him.They've caught them in a lot of lies lately, folks. Hillary Clinton, talking about liars, wants to double down...Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare and make it even worse. So, here, I'm going to repeal it, replace it. We're going to have a replacement that is so much less expensive and so much better. You don't even get to use Obamacare (because) the deductible is so high and, you know, it's just... Look, it is so -- it is so out of control, you'll never get to use it. Four or five thousand dollars before you can start taking... Just this and just happened, Hillary Clinton declared that Obamacare -- do you remember this -- not so long ago as one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party, and of our county. It's a total disaster.Here in Ohio, another five insurance companies are dropping out of Obamacare. Good luck, good luck in negotiations, folks. That means that all the residents covered by plans from these companies will be getting cancellation notices very soon. Obamacare is really -- and you know this -- a catastrophe -- it's a catastrophic event for Ohio workers and is making it impossible for many parents to pay their bills, support their families, or get quality medical care to their children. Repealing Obamacare is one of the single most important reasons we must win on November eighth.Have to win. Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington, D.C.The Clinton crew gave more than $675,000 to the wife of the Deputy Director of the FBI, and the man who was overseeing the investigation into Hillary's illegal server, a server we now know Obama knew about. Just found that out yesterday. WikiLeaks. The more emails WikiLeaks releases, the more lies between the Clinton Foundation, the Secretary of State's office, and the Clintons' personal finances, they all get blurred.If the Clintons were willing to play this fast and loose with their enterprise when they weren't in the White House, just imagine what they'll do given the change to once again control the Oval Office. And we've had enough. Honestly, I think we've had enough of the Clintons, in all fairness. Right? Don't you agree?Had enough. I mean at what point, at what point do we say it? Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency.I propose a contract with the American voter that will end the corruption and give the government back to the people. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to heed the words I'm about to say. If we win on November eighth, when...OK, OK. When we win on November eighth.We don't want to take it for granted, but we are winning in a lot of states, I have to say. The media now, they're going wild. The media's going wild. Because they're saying, you know, this guy's winning in Florida, he's winning in North Carolina, he's winning in Iowa, he's winning in Ohio. All right. When we win, right, we are going to Washington, D.C., and we are going to drain the swamp.No, it's terrible what's happened, what's happened in this area, what's happened in this country with jobs is terrible. Hillary Clinton promised to bring upstate New York 200,000 jobs when she ran for Senate. Instead the jobs left. They didn't come in, they left. She been there for 30 years and hasn't fixed anything. She's just made things worse, except for herself and her husband.Forty-seven million Americans are on food stamps, and 45 million Americans live in poverty. Nearly one in four Americans, in their prime earning years, are not working or able to work. Seventy million American women and children are in poverty or on the brink of poverty, and nearly half of African-American children under the age of six are living in abject poverty.Our national debt has doubled in eight years, and our infrastructure throughout our country is crumbling, bad shape. Our airports, our roads, our bridges, our tunnels, our schools, our hospitals. Our trade deficit with the world is now nearly $800 billion a year. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Think of it. And that's so true. The single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.What our politicians have allowed to happen to this area, but to all areas of our country. NAFTA, TPP they want to approve. A disaster. Ohio has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Hillary Clinton. Remember, every time you see a closed factory, a wiped out community in Ohio, it was essentially caused by the Clintons. It was NAFTA. It was caused by the Clintons. Why a deal like that was allowed.We've lost 70,000 factories. Think of that one, 70. I tell everybody, it's a typo. Can't be 70,000. It is. We've lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster. Just this year, Eaton Corporation in Ohio closed its plant, laid off 152 workers, and moved their jobs to Mexico. And you've had many. I could -- I could name them all day long.Under my contract, if a company wants to fire their workers, move to Mexico or other countries, and ship their products back into the United States, we will put a 35 percent tariff on those products.And folks, just in case you have any questions, when that happens you're not losing your companies anymore. And if you do, at least the country's gonna make a lot of money. OK? We will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA, and if we don't get the deal we want -- right now it's a one-way highway. We lose our jobs, we lose our companies, we lose everything. We lose our cash. They get the cash, they get the jobs, they get the companies. We get the drugs, we get the unemployment. That's what we get. We get nothing. We get less than nothing.We will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers if we can't renegotiate it properly. We're gonna get a better deal for our workers and for our companies. Because we cannot continue to be the people led by stupid people. We can't. We can't.As part of our plan to bring back American jobs we will lower taxes on our businesses from 35 percent down to 15 percent. We will also cut taxes for middle class families by 35 percent and massively simplify taxes for all Americans. We will be a rich nation once again.But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world, you know that story. And spreading violently, it's spreading now into the United States. There are now 1,000 open ISIS investigations in the United States. ISIS is on a campaign of genocide against Christians in the Middle East, or what they call the Nation of the Cross. OK. The Nation of the Cross.They are crucifying, drowning and beheading their victims. This is something that we would read about in history books. And not since medieval times, right? Have you heard the beheadings and all the things that are happening. So we have no choice. We will stop ISIS and we still stop them fast.Now Hillary wants massive immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world, where ISIS operates, including a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees over and above the thousands and thousands that President Obama is taking.We don't want ISIS in our country. The Hillary refugee plan would leave us with generations of terrorism, radicalism and extremism inside of our shores. I only want to admit people who will support this country and love its people. SO important.Keeping our families safe is the highest obligation of the president of the United States. A Trump administration is going to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions. And we will suspend the Syrian refugee program. That was easy.We're not going to take the risk when it comes to the safety of the American people. No longer. So let me state this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.Hillary also said she wants totally open borders.No one who supports open borders can ever serve as president of the United States. Totally open borders. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a wall.Have to. We have to.And who is going to pay for the wall?One hundred percent. Mexico, in terms of our trade deficits, is making a fortune off the United States. Their leaders are doing a much smarter job. But you know what? We'll be happy with Mexico. Mexico's gonna be wonderful, we're going to have a great relationship with Mexico, with China and with other -- we don't even have good relationships now. They rip us off and we still don't get along. At least they should be nice to us. They're not even nice. They'll be nice.Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. Right here in Ohio. Sixty-year old Margaret Costleman was murdered in cold blood by an illegal immigrant. Earlier that day her killer shot another woman in the arm while she was with her children in a nearby park. Police encountered the man more than three weeks before the crime scene, but federal authorities refused to take him into custody, even though people were saying, "Please, please don't let him out. Please take him in."Then there is the case of 90-year old Earl Olander, a Minnesota farmer who was brutally beaten by illegal immigrants and left to bleed to death in his home. Earl's body was found with his hands bound behind his back with duct tape. A blunt force injury to his head. His killers had criminal records but they did not meet the Obama administration's priorities for removal.But others that knew him and others that knew them were pleading, were pleading, "Don't let them out. Don't let them into our society." I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers and the gang members. When I win, your long reign of crime and terror and horror will come to a very beautiful crashing end.We will also repeal Obama-Clinton defense cuts and rebuild our badly depleted military. Our Air Force is the smallest and oldest it's ever been. Did you know that? Because I know what you have here. You guys are good with Wright Patterson. Right? What a great place. But we're very depleted, we have old equipment. We will build brand new, modern, state of the art planes to fly right at 'em, right at Wright Patterson Air Force Base. We have a lot of veterans here today.I want to thank them for their service and let them know as president I have your back. Believe me.I have your back. We will. She just said, "Make America great again, Mr. Trump." We will make America great again. Don't worry about it. We will. And it won't take too long. We will change our foreign policy. Hillary Clinton's policies in Iraq, Syria, Libya threw the Middle East into total turmoil. We're spending $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East while our own country falls into total disrepair. Now Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, conflict with a nuclear power -- Russia -- which could very well lead to World War III.And the way she talks about Putin. She's always said she has no idea, but she's always saying -- WikiLeaks, it's Russia, and Donald Trump -- I have nothing to do with Russia.She said maybe Donald Trump is involved in projects with the Russians. The answer's no, no. But what she does, she says Donald Trump and Russia. Look, look, she speaks so badly of Putin, nuclear country, she speaks so badly, I say -- and she uses it to keep trying to get votes.I said to myself you know, how do you speak so badly of somebody, I mean how are they going to ever get along? Wouldn't it be great if we actually got along with Russia and other countries?And we together went after ISIS and knocked the hell out of them? Wouldn't that be a good thing?Because they want to get them out also.But she speaks very badly of Putin, and I don't think that's smart, you know. You can be very tough, but you shouldn't be doing what she's doing. As her own team has said in WikiLeaks, she has terrible instincts. To all Americans I say it's time for new leadership, it really is time.Can you imagine four more years of Obama? That's what you got to --It's high taxes, it's high regulations, all these companies they can't even breathe with the regulations, unnecessary. It's ISIS all over the place. You know, she says she'll stop ISIS. Let me tell you, there was no ISIS. There was no ISIS. During her term, she created with Obama a vacuum in Iraq, ISIS formed, and then Obama called them the JV, junior varsity, right?Well they're not the JV anymore, folks. They're going to be no trouble, we are going to knock them so hard. But look, look, they're not the JV, and they weren't them. And now they're in 32 different countries. So she's saying we will get rid of ISIS. She wants to go back home and go to sleep, that's what she wants to do.Did you see where she got upset yesterday because I took a little while, just a few hours, to cut a ribbon to make sure my kids did a good job? We built the building by the way, under budget, and ahead of schedule.And she said Donald Trump got off the campaign trail. I mean I've been doing six, seven, eight things a day every single day. She's home sleeping half the time.I say she's definitely a low energy person. I said where is Hillary? I watched after the last debate, and after the second debate. She was tired, wow.She walked off that stage, she had a lot of people around, they had a lot of people around her, which was smart. Everything will change in November. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days.We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation.We're going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core.We're going to rebuild our military, and take care of our vets.We will support the truly great men and women of law enforcement.We are going to save our second amendment which is under siege.And we'll appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court, so important, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Americans are tired of being told by politicians they have to defer their dreams to another day, but they really mean another decade. It's like our politics are caught in time loop. We keep electing the same people over and over again, Clinton, Clinton, oh, Clinton, the impeachment, the lying, the whole thing.We're going to keep make the same mistakes if you keep doing that, and we are going to continue to hear the same old excuses. These career politicians keep telling us that things can't change, that we can't find new solutions. That's basically what they tell us.Well I have a message for them. The future belongs to the dreamers, not the cynics, and not the critics. The future belongs to the dreamers.I'm asking all Americans to join me in dreaming big and bold things for our future. I'm going to fight for every American, of every background, in every stretch of this nation. I'm going to fight to liberate our citizens from violence and poverty, and crime and fear.And I'm going to fight for the inner cities, and for the African- American community, and the way they're forced to live in the inner cities with no jobs, no education, and no safety.I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people, not the donors, and not the special in.I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together again as one people under one God, saluting one American flag.That's right, once again we will have a government of, by, and for the people.You gotta get out and vote. It's going to be something special. And I tell you this, and I tell others this sometimes, this is amazing group of people, the spirit, the energy, the genius, the genius. But you will say that this will be one of the great and most important meetings of your life, but most importantly, you will say that this vote will be the most important vote you've ever cast.Because our country doesn't win anymore. We don't win with trade, we don't win with our great military, we don't allow them to win, we don't win with ISIS --The world is laughing at us. We don't win at the borders. We don't win with taking care of our vets. We don't win with anything. We don't win anymore. We will start winning again like you've never seen before.And I kiddingly say that one of our great two congressman that are here someplace -- where are those great guys? They're here. They're going to be coming to see me at the White House, and they're going to say Mr. President, Mr. President sir, Mr. President --The people of Ohio, they can't take it anymore, sir. You're winning too much.You knocked out ISIS, there are too many jobs in Ohio, too many companies are pouring in. We have a little traffic. Traffic wouldn't be a bad thing, right? Every time you see traffic remember, it's not such a bad thing. Mr. President, you're winning too much, please, please stop winning so much, we're not used to it. I'll say listen, Congressmen, we are going to continue to win.We are going to win like never before.We are going to make our country wealthy again. We are going to make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you very much. Thank you, everybody.Make sure you go out and vote. God bless you. God bless you.Wow, what a nice group. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What a nice group.That's a big group! We're having some awfully big groups. Thank you, everybody. Thank you.In 12 days we are going to win Ohio and we are going to win back the White House, believe me.A brand-new poll just came out. Remington Research has us up 4 points in Ohio.Early voting is underway, so make sure you get out and vote, right? This is amazing. All, no matter where we go, we have these massive crowds. We just left one that was 11,000. We're just -- it's been amazing, the receptivity. There's never been anything like this in this country, but you have to get out and vote because otherwise all wasted.We're going to win, we're going to win big. I think we're going to win a lot bigger than people even understand. You know what I mean, a lot bigger.We're tired of stupidity and we're tired of incompetence and we're going to run it properly and that's what we want. We want to make America great again, folks. It's very simple.Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track. Who are the other 25, just out of curiosity? Who are the 25 percent? We're going to fix it and we're going to get our country back on the right track.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.What a mess. It never worked from day one, it was never destined to work. There was no way it was ever going to work. And I said before they voted, I said that's never going to work. It has just been announced that Americans are going to experience a massive double-digit hike in Obamacare  premiums, including a 116 percent premium hike in the great state of Arizona. Think of that. Don't worry, you're not going to be so far behind. Don't worry. It's a mess. It's a mess. It's going up in numbers like you wouldn't believe.Just so you understand, Hillary Clinton is going to double-down, double-up, she wants that thing. She's going to spend so much money, but you're going to spend more money. You're right. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world, quote, "craziest thing in the world, " where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half.Job-killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged. Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, destroying American health care forever and destroying businesses forever because you see what it's doing to businesses, small and big.Just this year, Crooked Hillary declared that Obamacare is one of the greatest accomplishment of President Obama, of the Democratic Party and of our country.Can you imagine? I'm just standing here saying, can you believe this? Can you imagine if that's one of your greatest accomplishments as president and it's a disaster? And by the way, we're going to repeal it, but it's going to die of its own weight. It can't make it anywhere. The insurance companies are all leaving, they're fleeing. Here in Ohio, another five insurance companies are dropping out of Obamacare. You'll have nobody to negotiate with, just one maybe, and that's a tough negotiation. That means all the residents covered by plans from these companies will be getting cancellation notices very shortly. I'm sure you look forward to that.It's a catastrophic situation beyond imagination. Repealing Obamacare is one of the single-most important reasons we must win on November 8th. She wants to keep it.She wants to keep it. We're going to repeal it, we're going to have a really great plan that's going to cost much less and be much better.Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington.Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 emails, lied to Congress under oath, made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer, and then told the FBI she couldn't remember, 39 times.The Clinton crew gave more than $675,000 to the wife of the deputy FBI director overseeing the investigation into Hillary's illegal server. We need to reopen the investigation.Information came out today just a little while ago that's more devastating than anything you've seen so far. WikiLeaks, more information, but it pertains to what they knew and it makes all of them -- they're already liars, but it confirms it for the 75th time. Hillary Clinton put the office of Secretary of State up for sale, and if she got the chance she'd put the Oval Office up for sale also.I propose a contract with the American voter that will end the corruption and give the government back to the people.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment -- and you know, I've been on that side, just so you understand. Life was a lot easier on that side. I didn't have to do this, but the day I announced...... June -- you're welcome, you're welcome.You're welcome. We had to do the right thing. The Washington establishment to hear and heed the words I'm about to say. If we win on November 8th...OK, OK, you ready? When we win...There's a lot of good energy in Ohio, that I can tell you. You know, I worked here very early in my career, like, the earliest, one of the first jobs I've ever done. I worked in Cincinnati. And it was a great success and it gave me that confidence, you know, I had a success and it was confidence. And I love Ohio, always have.So when we win, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.You know, that phrase started about a week ago and I thought it was terrible. I didn't like it at all. I said, I don't know, I just don't like it. And now it's become one of the hottest phrases anywhere in the world and I'm saying I like it. That's like, did you ever see the great singers, Frank Sinatra? Some of his greatest hits he didn't like them, but at the end he liked them very much, right? This is what happened with "drain the swamp, " it's a great phrase. But it's true. The people like it, that's much more important.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. So true. Ohio has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Crooked Hillary.Remember...Who's the one that said that? That's excellent. This guy's screaming out "slick Willy."It's true. It's true. That's right. Supported strongly by slick Willy, I think I'll make that a...Remember, every time you see a closed factory -- and before I get into this, this is too depressing, is this the most fun you'll ever have, right? Right? Being at a Trump rally.Being at a Trump rally, there's nothing better. All right, now let's get back to the closed factories, OK?But every time you see a closed factory, a wiped out community here in Ohio, the Clintons were really involved because NAFTA has been such a disaster. And he signed it. New Mather Metals closed its factory in Toledo and laid off 168 workers and shipped their jobs to Mexico, 2010.Texi Leather Corporation closed their Toledo factory and laid off 160 workers and moved their jobs to China and Canada in 2009.Honeywell Autolite's factory in Fostoria over the past 16 years has laid off and moved at least 900 jobs to Mexico.Employees at Dixon Ticonderoga...Dixon Ticonderoga, right? Is that the name? Who the hell cares, they're gone. I mean, who cares? Maybe we'll get them back. Should we try getting them back?See, now with me they wouldn't be able to leave, because whatever the hell they make, when they go to Mexico and they make their product and they want to send it back over the border and they leave us with closed plants and unemployment and Mexico gets the cash, the employment, the factories, everything, what happens is they make their product, they want to send it across, I say, no, thank you, it's a 35 percent tax to get your product. Right?Right? Thirty-five percent tax. And you know what's going to happen? If I do it early enough, they're not leaving, they're not leaving. They're not going to leave. And if they do leave, we make a lot of money as a country, that's OK. But nobody's leaving. Thirty- five percent, go ahead, leave, we'll enjoy it very much.We've lost, and I say this all the time, because it's hard to believe, 70,000 factories. I thought it was a typo. I thought it was 700 or 7,000, it's 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster.Under my contract, if a company wants to fire their workers, move to Mexico or other countries and ship their products back into the United States, as I said, we will put a 35 percent tax or tariff on those products and they will not leave.They're not going to leave. Now, the politicians knew this, some of them did. Some of them probably don't because they don't have any basic understanding of the way the system works. But a lot of them knew this, but they're controlled by special interests.You know, I'll have over $100 million invested in this campaign...... meaning -- oh, you know, if I don't win I will consider that -- some of these dishonest people back here, and they are among the world's most dishonest...... they are disgusting. They are among the world's most dishonest people. But believe it or not, some of them, they said this, what we have all done together, is one of the great political phenomena. Some, Bill O'Reilly, said this is the single-greatest political phenomena that he's ever witnessed, right?But you know what? One by one they disappeared. And now we're down to one person who's got low energy, very low energy. She goes to sleep. So, look, here's the story. Who is more low energy? Bill O'Reilly just asked me. I just did Bill O'Reilly, he's on tonight. He said, who is more low energy, Jeb Bush or Hillary Clinton?He just asked me that question. What's the answer? Who? Who? Who's more low energy? I don't know. Hey, and you know what I say? It doesn't matter.Ohio is at the center of American motor vehicles and the industry is really suffering in terms of production. According to the state development, almost 75 percent of all light vehicles produced in North America are made in Ohio or within 500 miles of this great state. The auto industry and its feeder industries account for over 10 percent of Ohio's economy. Seventy-five of Ohio's 88 counties have at least one automotive industry business. Nearly one in eight Ohio residents are either directly or indirectly employed by the auto industry.Hillary Clinton supported and lobbied for the South Korea trade agreement, you know that one, that's been another disaster, on the promise of 75,000 new jobs. Instead, her trade deal destroyed 100,000 jobs mostly in the auto industry. And believe me, as you stand here today, your executives are negotiating deals to move businesses out of Ohio and into Mexico and other countries, because we have nobody to protect our companies and really nobody to protect our workers.Next -- you got me, you got me. Believe me, I'll protect you.Hillary wants the Transpacific Partnership which will kill the rest of our auto jobs and kill jobs generally speaking in this country. Won't be -- here's the good news. It will never be as bad as NAFTA. You never thought I'd say that. NAFTA is the all-time king. There will never be anything like it.First of all, it was defective the day it was done. You know, it's a different tax system. Theirs is a VAT tax system. Right?Oh, look, there's a person clapping because there's only one person who understands in this whole audience, right? You know what I'm saying. It's a VAT tax system. So before we even start, if we go in or they come out, we're 17 percent behind, their tax is almost 17 percent. So we're 17. So it was a defective agreement for many years and nobody ever fixed it. So they had this huge advantage for many years because of the tax system.I will stop Transpacific Partnership and I will bring the auto jobs back to America and keep your remaining auto jobs in Ohio.Believe me. Nobody's leaving. They may leave for a different state, don't get angry at me, but we've got to keep them in our country. We love our country, right?We will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA, that disaster. And if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal. All right? Believe me.You know, folks, this has got to be a two-way street, right? You know, you want some coming this way, the problem is it's a one-way highway right out.As part of our plan to bring back American jobs, we will lower taxes on our businesses from 35 percent down to 15 percent. We'll go from the highest to among the lowest.Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes on small business up to 45 percent.What a difference. You know, what a difference this is. I'm just thinking to myself right now, we should just cancel the election and just give it to Trump, right? What we even having with them? What are we having with them?Her policies are so bad. Boy, do we have a big difference. Hillary also says she wants to put coal miners out of work. Not going to happen.Stop producing shale energy in most places and place a permanent moratorium on energy development on federal lands where vast coal and shale energy and other forms of energy are located.My administration will unleash all sources of American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, renewables and clean coal. And we're putting the miners back to work.We will put out miners back to work and we will put our steelworkers who are under siege back to work.We will become a rich nation once again.A woman came up to me three months ago, she said, Mr. Trump, I love you, I'm going to vote for you, she said, but you're making a terrible mistake when you talk about making our country rich again, it doesn't sound good. I said, to me it sounds good. Why? She explained, and I understand.You know, in this world of politically correct, you're going to be rich again, we're going to make a rich country again, we need to be a rich country again. If we're going to do what we have to do in terms of infrastructure, which is a disaster -- you know, we've spent $6 trillion in the Middle East. We could have rebuilt our country twice. And we are now in far worse shape in the Middle East than if our presidents just went to the beach every day, right?Or in the case of Obama, went golfing every day instead of every- other day, right? See, the problem is he went every-other day, so, therefore, the day he stayed in the White House was not good.And what about this? What about a guy who's constantly campaigning for Crooked Hillary, that's all he does, right? That's all he does.He campaigns -- this guy ought to be in the White House working on jobs, working on our military, working on defeating ISIS.What a terrible situation. But to be a rich country, we also must be a safe country. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world. The vacuum was created and it spread into the United States. There are now 1,000 open ISIS investigations in the United States. ISIS is on a campaign of genocide against Christians in the Middle East or what they call the nation of the cross. That's what they call, the nation of the cross. Think of that. Think of that. That's the term they have for Christians.And people -- who said that over there? Let me see. Who said it? Who's the guy? Don't worry, they're going to be -- I'll tell you, they are dreaming of having her win. Do you ever notice, she says we're going to work on the tax code, we're going to work on ISIS, we're going to work on this. She's been there for 30 years. What's she been doing, right? What's she been doing?ISIS is dreaming of her becoming president, that I can tell you. They're crucifying, drowning and beheading their victims. Not since Medieval times have we seen what's happening. Have you ever thought you'd see this? They're throwing people off buildings and hanging their victims from meat hooks.The New York Post just published reports about ISIS crushing children to death and burning adults alive. This is what we have. This is what has been unleashed. Now Hillary wants massive immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world where ISIS operates, including a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees entering our country over and above the thousands and thousands already coming here under Obama.A Trump administration is going to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions and we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And you know what? We're working, we'll build safe zones in Syria, we'll do things, we'll get the Gulf states to put in the money because our country has no money. We owe $20 trillion, doubled-up under Obama. And yet, our roads are no good and our tunnels and our hospitals and our bridges and our schools. So we owe all this money and, you know, I'd like to say if we owed the money and we're in tippy-top shape, right, tippy-top, but we're not in tippy-top, we're in terrible shape. Pretty sad, pretty sad.Let me state this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected president, I am going to keep radical Islam...When I'm elected president...... better get out and vote -- I'm going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Believe me, believe me.Hillary also said she wants totally open borders, meaning you don't have a country anymore.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.And yes, we will build a wall.A real wall. This will be a real wall and Mexico will pay for the wall.Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. And by the way, the Border Patrol agents and ICE both endorsed me, endorsed me, first time they've ever endorsed a candidate for president.Right here in Ohio, 60-year-old Margaret Kostelnik was murdered in cold blood by an illegal immigrant. Earlier that day, her killer shot another woman in the arm while she was with her children in a nearby park. Police encountered the man more than three weeks before the crime spree, but federal authorities under Obama refused to take him into custody.People that knew this thug were begging -- were begging -- that he be incarcerated he was so dangerous.Nothing was done. Then there was the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, a Minnesota farmer, who was brutally beaten by illegal immigrants and left to bleed to death in his own house. Earl's body was found with his hands bound behind his back in duct tape and blunt force injuries to his head. His killers had criminal records a mile long, but they did not meet the Obama administration's priority for removal.Then you had the recent case of 800 people, tough ones, who were going to be deported. You saw that three weeks ago, right? They were going to be deported. Now, you know if they're going to be deported from our country they've got to be trouble. What happened is there was a mistake made and instead of deporting them, congratulations everybody, they became United States citizens.And there was a mistake made. Instead of 800, I have a little bad news for you, instead of 800 it was close to 1,800 people. So they became.So I then said very strongly, then undo the error, undo the error. And they said we can't do that, it would not be constitutional. Can you believe this? Can you believe this?Right? I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers and the gang members, when I win -- when, when, you understand me?Your long reign of crime and terror will come to a crashing end. We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense cuts and rebuild our badly depleted military where we have our greatest people.We will rebuild our Army, which is the smallest since World War II, and maybe we need it more than ever before, almost ever before. We've had some other pretty bad times, too. But we need strength. Peace through strength, right?New orders for equipment for our troops will need to come to places like Lima, Ohio, home of -- I like Lima better, what do you like?Home of the Abrams tank. Is that the best tank in the world? Is it?Is it the best?And we will change our foreign policy. Hillary Clinton's policies in Iraq, in Syria, in Libya threw the Middle East into turmoil. Now Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia, which could very well lead to World War III. And you see the way she talks about Putin. I mean, no wonder Putin doesn't like her and has no respect for her. You know, they're nuclear-armed. It's all right, it would be nice if we got along, we don't, we don't, but it would be nice. But how can he get along with her? How can he get along with her? He's got no respect for her, number one. And the way she talks, this is ridiculous.I'll tell you what, honestly if we could have a good relationship with Russia, that would be a good thing, not a bad thing. I mean, I hate to say it, it would be a good thing.I don't know that that will happen, but it would be a good thing. One thing, I'll figure it out real fast. You understand that, right? I'll figure it out real fast.To all Americans, I say it's time for new leadership. We have to have new leadership.We cannot have another four years of Barack Obama, cannot. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days. We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation, provide school choice and put an end to Common Core, bring your education home.We're going to rebuild our military and take care of our great, great veterans. They have not been taken care of.We will support the wonderful men and women of law enforcement...... save the Second Amendment which is under siege and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams to another day, but really you and I know it's another decade or many decades away. It's like our politics are caught in a total time loop. We keep electing the same people over and over again who keep making the same mistakes and who keep offering the same old, tired excuses.These career politicians keep telling us that things can't change, that we can't try new solutions. Not only try, the new solutions are common sense, so simple. I mean, keeping our jobs, that's going to work, folks, let me tell you. It's amazing, it's amazing that it's gone this long. But again, the special interests, the donors, they control the politicians. But I have a message for them. The future belongs to the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.I'm asking all Americans to join me in dreaming big like we used to in this country, big and bold for our future. I'm going to fight for every American of every background in every stretch of this nation. I'm going to fight for every mother who has lost her child to illegal immigration or drugs or gang violence. I am going to fight for every community in Ohio, in Michigan, in Pennsylvania and all around this nation whose jobs have been ripped out and shipped to other countries because we have people that are not capable of properly representing us.It's so sad, so easy and so sad.I'm going to fight for every citizen who believe that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.And I'm going to fight to bring us all together as Americans. We're living in a divided country. It's not going to be divided. We're going to love everybody like we love the people in this room.Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag. Think about that.Once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.And we're going to work on -- our ghettos are in -- you take a look at what's going on where you have pockets of areas of land where you have the inner cities and you have so many things, so many problems, so many horrible, horrible problems. The violence, the death, the lack of education, no jobs. We're going to work with the African-American community and we're going to solve the problem of the inner city. We're going to solve the problem.We're going to solve the problem. We're going to bring back jobs to the inner cities. We're going to bring proper education, including school choice. And we're going to bring safety back. We're going to bring safety back. You can't walk out the street, you buy a loaf of bread and you end up getting shot. So we're going to work very strongly with the African-American community.And remember this. The Democrats have been talking about this for years. I mean, 50, 80, 90, 100 unbroken. We are going to solve the educational problem, the crime problem and the jobs problem of the inner cities. And a lot of people are going to be very happy, going to finally happen. They've been talking. They want your vote, so they come in, they get your vote, and then they get your vote four years later and then they get your vote again. And at some point, people say that's enough. They only want your vote. Hillary wants your vote, that's all.Together, we will make, all together, America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And guess what the last one is?See all those beautiful caps? We will make America great again!Thank you, Ohio. Thank you. Get out and vote. God bless you, everybody. Get out and vote. Thank you.And this is 20,000 if we get them in, so we'll try getting them in. But let's start, right?Thank you, everybody, for being here. In 12 days we are going to win Ohio and we are going to win back the White House, believe me.It's about time. A brand-new poll -- I love the good polls when they're accurate. Even if they're against me, which aren't so many against us, right, if they're accurate, but a brand-new poll just came out from Remington Research, highly respected, has us 4 points up in Ohio.And we're leading in Florida and we're leading in Iowa and we're leading in a lot of places. They're starting to get very nervous, the press.The dishonest media, world's most dishonest people. I'm trying to figure out, who is more dishonest? Crooked Hillary Clinton or the media?I'm not sure, that's a close one.Early voting, right? Everybody, did you vote? Did you vote yet?Early voting is underway, so make sure to get out and vote, right? Who's voted? Who has voted?And I love Ohio. I worked in Ohio.You know, I worked here at the very beginning of my career I worked in Ohio in Cincinnati. And I'll tell you what, I love the people of Ohio.And I was right next to Kentucky and I'd go across the line, I love the people of Kentucky, they've been so great, too, right? Yeah, come on.Seventy-five percent of the American people think our country is on the wrong track, which it certainly is. Who are the other 25 percent? Who are these people? Twenty-five percent think we're on the right track? We're going to fix it and we're going to get our country back on the right track very, very fast.Real change begins with immediately -- immediately -- replacing and repealing Obamacare!Disaster. It's been a disaster from the day it was approved. It should have never been approved. It was approved by lies. You can keep your doctor: lie! You can keep your plan: lie! Twenty-eight times he said keep your doctor, keep your plan, all lies.It has just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double-digit hike in Obamacare premiums, including an 11 -- think of this one. If you live in the great state of Arizona, which not too many -- who goes to Arizona? It's a great place. 116 percent increase in the premiums. You live in Arizona...... oh, don't smile, because you know what? It's going to happen to you, too. It's going to happen. It is a total catastrophe, Obamacare in this country. And Hillary Clinton wants to keep it and make it even more expensive. And it's never going to work. Even Bill Clinton admitted that Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. No-good, job-killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged. Our system is rigged. Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, destroying American health care forever. And that's what's happening. You see it. Does everybody agree, I mean, that has it?You're great.Just this year, Hillary Clinton declared that Obamacare is one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama, of the Democratic Party and of our country. Can you believe it?And this is who you're going to have as president? I don't think so.She's got bad judgment. Remember Bernie Sanders? He said she's got bad judgment; she does.Here in Ohio, another five insurance companies are dropping out of Obamacare. They're out, which means you don't have many left to negotiate with, folks. Good luck. That means all of the residents covered by plans from these companies will be getting cancellation notices very soon. It is catastrophic. Replacing Obamacare is one of the single most important reasons why we want to win on November 8th.Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington.Crooked Hillary Clinton bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after a congressional subpoena, lied to Congress under oath and then made 13 iPhones disappear, some with a hammer. Unbelievable.Who here has gotten rid of their phones with a hammer, anybody in the room? Boy, this place is packed. That person. Why, home come? What business are you in, sir? Don't tell me, I don't want to know.Now in another new report, we're learning that Hillary Clinton's State Department wasted hundreds of millions of dollars of your hard- earned tax pay spending on a wild bunch of things. Here are some of the kinds of shocking revelations about Hillary's spending habits. These are all State Department expenditures during her tenure: $5.4 million on a no-bid contract for crystal stemware; $167.5 million on cost overruns at the embassy in Afghanistan; over $200 million on mostly unused police training facilities in Iraq; $79,000 to buy copies of President Obama's books, wonderful, wonderful deal; $53 to polish marble at the Brazilian embassy, that's a great deal; $630,000 to try and make the State -- oh, this is a good one -- to try and make the State Department Facebook pages more popular.Doesn't she understand you need personality to do that, not money. You need personality.Not a lot of personality there, even though she'd get millions of dollars to make speeches. I tell you what, that wasn't a good deal.Two hundred and sixteen thousand dollars to hire an event planner for a 4th of July party in Madrid; $88,000 to send three comedians to India. These are the things. More than $250,000 to purchase art in Mexico, where they're taking our companies and our jobs, now we're buying art.We are going to build the wall 100 percent and Mexico is going to pay for the wall, don't worry about it.And $410,000 to purchase art in China. The elites in government, like Hillary Clinton, believe they're entitled to do whatever they want. Hillary Clinton has never earned an honest dollar. Well, I think that's really, you know, hey, let's put it this way. What she's done to our country is a disgrace and she should be ashamed of herself.She lives the high life at your expense, making money off the rigged system, and it is a rigged system. Are you starting to agree with me about the rigged system?This is an election between the small handful of people who benefit from the corrupt system and the great majority of American citizens who are the victims of that same corruption. Those who benefit from the corruption will say and do anything to keep it the way it is, they don't want change.Washington insiders, including the corrupt media...... they are so dishonest, look down on hardworking people who make a very honest and, you know, really a fought-for living. And it's tough. It's tough when our country allows your companies to all leave and fire everybody. Pretty tough, isn't it?The corrupt political class takes pride in ripping off the American people. Now these same elites, the people who brought us every disastrous foreign war, all of these horrible wars that they never win -- we go into wars, they never win the wars, they just go on forever. Disastrous. And then they've brought us these horrible trade deals, are spending millions to try to put Hillary in the White House so she can keep the deal going on and keep what we really love about our country, the greatness of our country, from the American people. It's not going to happen longer.November 8th, everybody.Hillary Clinton said she left the White House dead broke and now they're worth over $200 million. They didn't create anything, produce anything, invent anything. All they did was sell favors, sell access and sell out the American worker.Uranium is right. Uranium to Russia, he just said uranium, uranium to Russia. Hillary even sold out our nation's security with her illegal private server, knowing full well it would put you and your family in danger. As moms across this nation put their children to bed each night with a prayer for safety and peace, Hillary was knowingly putting those same families at risk by putting our confidential secrets on this illegal, private server. But for Hillary, it seems anything is OK as long as it increases whatever it was she was looking for.I'm running to put a stop to the theft of our great American prosperity.We're going to do it. I'm running to put an end to corruption. I'm running to expose the crimes of our ruling class and give this country back to the middle class and to the people, to the people.Hillary pushes trade deals, like the Transpacific Partnership, that enrich her donors and strip the jobs out of your community. And then she says at the debate, remember, she never called it the gold standard, that's what she said. But at the next debate, which I don't want to brag, but I won the debates, OK? I'm not going to brag.It wasn't hard. She was very tired at the end of those debates, did you notice? The scenes of her going to the car were not pretty.She wants to raise your taxes, even if she used those taxes to spend lavishly on wasteful projects at the State Department. She pledges open borders, that means there goes your country.There goes your country, open borders. In secret to her donors, even as it causes the loss of millions of American jobs and thousands of American lives, you see what's happening in terms of safety and security.She talks about the values of tolerance, yet proposes to issue massive numbers of visas to places, and think of this, visas all over, to places where women and gays and minorities and horribly oppressed and brutalized. I mean, you see what's happening. Countries are pouring money into her and her husband and you see what some of these countries do to women and gays and to so many others. And she should give that money back to those countries.But she takes money from these regimes without apology and doesn't worry about how extremism brought onto our shores will affect the quality of life for you or your family. Hillary has access to the best doctors in the world, but wants you and your children to live under Obamacare which is a catastrophe.And she doesn't want to repeal it and she doesn't want to replace it, she wants it to get bigger and more expensive.I'm running to end the rule of this corrupt ruling class.And I was, I have to tell you, you know, I was on the other side of this equation, folks. I didn't need to do this. I did not need to do this. But I love this country, I love the people of this country, and we did it. And you know what? It's a movement like they've never seen before.Never. And we're going to give government back to the people.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to hear the words I'm about to say. When we win...... we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.So cute. I see this young boy here and he's screaming "drain the swamp!" He's this big, how cute.He's learning young, learning young about our government. Very cute.You know, I didn't like the expression. I started it, what, a week ago, right? Drain the swamp. And I said I don't like it. And the people were going crazy, they loved it. All of a sudden I like it. It's like Frank Sinatra was a special guy, a difficult guy, but he had songs he didn't like, but they became his biggest songs, so he liked them. And "drain the swamp, " I'm starting to like it a lot. Do we agree? It's very reflective of what we're trying to do.At the core of my contract, and that's a contract with America and the American people, is a plan and our plan to bring back our jobs.We are living through the single-greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Look at what's happened to not only Ohio, everybody, everything, our country. Ohio has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by his lovely wife, Hillary.We've lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster. The steel industry has been hit so hard. U.S. Steel in Lorain laid off at least 600 workers in 2015, and that's after years of doing lots of layoffs. Republic Steel laid off over 200 workers this year. A Trump administration will immediately begin, and I have to do this, we will immediately begin renegotiating NAFTA...... and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better and stronger and fairer deal for our workers and our country.We will also stand up to the Chinese currency manipulation, of which they're grand masters, and we will stop separately, because China right now is not in Transpacific Partnership, but they want to be in it at a later date when they find out how good it is, they want to wait. We will become a rich nation again.But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world with the vacuum. Look, she has created with Obama the way that we -- we should have never been in Iraq, but we should have never ever gotten out the way they got out. And the next time we attack whoever we're going to attack, maybe we could use a little bit of -- what's the best word? Surprise, right? Maybe we could use a little bit of, like, the element of surprise, would that be possible?Instead of four months ago, three months ago, two months ago, we're going into Mosul in three months and we're going to -- in the meantime, hey, look, these people are tough and they're smart. We're going in to get the leaders because the leaders of ISIS they thought lived in Mosul and they probably did. But they were gone about, what, 12 seconds after they heard? They were gone.So there we lose that. In addition, the fighters have really trenched in, make it much tougher. The element of surprise, the element of surprise, so sad. And it's a tough battle. These people are using human shields, they're fighting hard, they've been preparing. And I've been seeing four months ago, then three months ago, then two months ago, they say we're going into Mosul. Then a week ago I heard we'll be attacking sometime tomorrow. What the hell is wrong?I always say, you know, I have great respect for General George Patton, although today he'd have a hard time being a general because he wasn't exactly politically correct. He was a little on the rough side.But could you imagine? He's been known to slap a soldier who was not exactly the kind of soldier he liked. In other words, a soldier that wasn't so brave. He had been known to slap. Now, if that happened here? Oh, boy, can you imagine if that would happen today? But his people loved him and his people would fight for him. And he wants to take care of his people because he loved his people.Thank you. He just said we'll fight for you. Thank you.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. But he wouldn't subject his people to announcing four and three and two and one month and then a week and then two days, we're going in tomorrow. This is crazy. This is crazy.And he wouldn't subject because these were smart people, these were great military men that didn't have -- well, I mean, look, they had different presidents than what we have. What we have is somebody that honestly he doesn't know what the hell he's doing.Doesn't know what he's doing. Don't forget, we shouldn't even be fighting for Mosul. You know, we had Mosul, but when we left they took it over, so now we have to go get it again. But we had Mosul. You know that. We left in such a dumb way, we just left, and then ISIS came and took it over. Remember, the junior varsity came and took over, right? So now we're getting it again.But you're not going to get the people and you're not going to get the leaders because they're gone long ago. So we have to be smarter, we need people that know what's going on with life. And we don't have that right now.Thank you. Thank you.We need Donald Trump.Now Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming into our country...... over and above the thousands and thousands that are coming in under President Obama, who, by the way, should stop campaigning for Hillary Clinton, get to the office, create jobs, help our military, help our vets who have been horribly treated.I mean, this guy's campaigning. That's all he likes to do is campaign. Boy, oh, boy I've got more people campaigning against me. I've got Biden, he said I'd like to take him behind the gym. Oh, I dream of that. Biden.You know what you do with Biden? You go like this and he'd fall over.Tough guy, Mr. Tough Guy, Mr. Tough Guy. Just a little bit of a pow and he's gone. Another beauty.Can you imagine if I ever made that statement? Donald Trump is a bully, he threatened Vice President Biden. Donald Trump is a bully, can you imagine? But he can say it, everyone thought, oh, that was a wonderful statement. Oh, oh, that was a -- give me a break. These people are the world's most -- they are so bad. Biden. I dream about Biden.Boy, would that be easy. That would be an easy function.A Trump administration will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And I want to build safe havens, but we have to use money from the Gulf states. They have plenty of money and they're not doing the job, but they've got a lot of money. But I want to see safe havens, we're all in the same thing, but we can't take people in this country who may do tremendous harm to us someday.When you look at what's going on in Germany and Paris and all over France, you look at what's going on in Belgium, you look at what's going on throughout the world, and we're taking people in by the tens of thousands? Hillary wants to increase it by 550 percent.That alone means, frankly, you shouldn't be voting for Hillary Clinton. Obamacare, you shouldn't be voting for Hillary Clinton. She wants to keep it.Taxes, she wants to raise your taxes, I'm lowering your taxes. Believe me, this country can't take a tax hike. So let me state this and state it very clearly. If I'm elected president, I'm going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.We're going to keep them out. We're not going to be reading about -- they're not going to be reading about us in a hundred years and talking about the new version of the Trojan horse. OK? You know what that means, right? No going to happen.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.And, yes, we will build a wall and, yes, Mexico will pay for the wall.Thousands of Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. The victims include 60-year-old Margaret Kostelnik, murdered in cold blood by an illegal immigrant right here in Ohio. You know the situation, you know the story. You know the story of Margaret.Earlier that day, her killer tried to rape a 14-year-old girl and shot another woman in the arm while she was with her children in a nearby park. Police encountered the man more than three weeks before the crime spree, but federal authorities acting under Obama guidelines refused to take him into custody, despite the fact that people were begging them to take this man off the streets. They wouldn't do it.I have a message for the cartels, the drug dealers and the gang members preying on our citizens. When I win, your long reign of terror will come to a crashing and very unglorious end.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense cuts and rebuild our badly depleted military, the greatest people on earth.We will build new advanced aircraft at places like Wright Patterson Air Force Base.And we will change our foreign policy. Hillary Clinton's policies in Iraq, in Syria, in Libya threw the Middle East into total mass turmoil. Now Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia, which could very well lead to World War III. I honestly think she's unstable. If you look at what she's saying, I actually believe she's unstable.To all Americans I say it is time for new leadership.We've spent now $6 trillion in the Middle East. We've spent, think of this, $6 trillion. We could have rebuilt our country twice. If our presidents went to the beach or, in Obama's case, if he went out and played golf every single day without making any decisions, we would have been far better off.Let's compare my contract with the American voter against Hillary's agenda. Hillary will raise taxes as much as 45 and even 50 percent. That's just what you need. Just what you need is to pay even more taxes.Highest-taxed nation in the world. My contract calls for the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.Hillary will massively expand regulation and shut down American energy. My contract eliminates every job-killing regulation.And we're going to put our miners back to work and our steelworkers back to work.Hillary opposes school choice and wants federal bureaucrats to make education choices instead of the parents. My contract guarantees school choice and puts an end to Common Core. We bring our education local.Hillary oversaw massive cuts to the military budget and said the problems at the V.A. are not widespread. Oh, they are really widespread.The veterans have been treated so badly, so badly. She said they're not widespread. Right? Tell that to a veteran that waits in line for nine days and can't see a doctor. My contract reverses the defense cuts, rebuilds our military and gives veterans the right to see the doctor of their choice if they cannot see a veterans doctor.Hillary attacks the integrity of police officers. You see that all the time. My contract calls for funding, training and supporting the incredible men and women of law enforcement.Hillary wants to release more violent offenders from prison, even as murder rates almost 8 percent in Ohio, did you know that, and have the largest one-year increase nationwide in 45 years. Did you know that? You don't hear that from the press. The biggest -- think of it, the biggest increase in murder in 45 years. You don't hear that. My contract calls for a national plan to reduce violent crime and treats safety as a civil right. It is a civil right.Hillary Clinton wants to effectively abolish the Second Amendment and overturn the Supreme Court's ruling.It's a big one. You saw her the other night at the debate. I don't even think she understood the question, talking about the Heller case.Who won the debate, by the way?I think that was an easy one. That was easy.My contract calls for saving the Second Amendment and protecting the right to keep and bear arms.We have to.Hillary wants immediate amnesty, open borders and virtually unlimited immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world. My plan ends illegal immigration. By the way, people come into our country, we have strong borders, we will have the wall, we're going to stop the drugs, but we're going to have big, beautiful doors in that wall and people are coming into our country, a lot of people, but they're going to come in legally.And we're going to suspend immigration from terror-prone regions. Hillary wants radical judges who will impose their personal opinions from the bench. My contract calls for the appointment of judges who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Hillary wants to go even further than Obama on illegal executive action. I will terminate every single illegal Obama executive order and will restore the constitutional rule...We will restore the constitutional rule of law in this country we have to have or we don't have a country.Finally, Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can't change and wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C.I'm asking you to dream big, to push for bold change and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love of this great country.I'm asking you to renew your faith in the American dream.Once again, we will have a government of, by and for the people.So we're going to work on a lot of things. We're going to work on coming together. We're going to work on our military. We're going to work on our inner cities. The inner cities need help, folks. They're so dangerous, they're crime-ridding, they're so dangerous, there are no jobs. There's essentially no education. We're going to work on our inner cities and make them great for African-American communities that are suffering in the inner cities. Suffering.We're going to work on our jobs. We're not letting companies say everybody's fired, we're moving to Mexico or wherever they want to move. We're going to make our product, we're going to sell it back into the United States, no problem. No, well, there is going to be a problem. There's going to be a big problem. So I said they want to do that, I don't call it retribution, I call it consequence. The consequence is, you want to let all of these great people from Ohio and from North Carolina and from Pennsylvania and all of these other great places, you want to let them go and you want to leave and you want to go build this beautiful plant? You go ahead. But it's a 35 percent tax, as I said. And just 35 percent.And, folks, and, folks, it's such a problem. We're losing our companies. We're losing our financial, we're losing everything. We're losing our jobs. We're losing our great jobs. You see it. Even the other side admits we're losing our good jobs. Our good jobs are going to other countries. So we're going to stop it. It's not even hard to stop it. And when they know there is that kind of a consequence, they're not leaving, they're staying. They may go to a different state, and that's different, right? But they're staying, they're staying in our country, they're not leaving. And when they want to leave, that's OK, too, because they're going to pay a very, very big price, right?We don't make things anymore. We don't win anymore. We don't win anymore. We don't win with health care. We don't win with ISIS. We can't beat ISIS. We don't win anymore and we don't make things anymore.It's going to change November 8th. You've got to get out November 8th.And you're going to say that this was -- oh, that's a beautiful, big sign. Now, those are fans.And by the way, I just spoke to our future vice president and he's OK. Do you know he was in a big accident with a plane? The plane skidded off the runway and was pretty close to grave, grave danger. But I just spoke to Mike Pence and he's fine.He got out, everybody's fine. Everybody's fine. But what a great decision it was to get Mike Pence. What a great guy he is.What a great job he's doing.So you're going to remember this evening and you're going to remember, more importantly, your vote, whether it's on November 8th or sooner, and you're going to say it was the most important vote you've ever cast because we're going to start making things again and we're going to start winning again, that I can tell you.And together as a big group and a loving group, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.Thank you.We love New Hampshire, I can tell you that.I need to open with a very critical breaking news announcement.The FBI has just sent a letter to Congress informing them that they have discovered new emails pertaining to the former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton's investigation...And they are reopening her case into her criminal and illegal conduct that threatens the security of the United States of America.Hillary Clinton's corruption is on a scale we have never seen before. We must not let her take her criminal scheme into the Oval Office. I have great respect for the fact that the FBI and the Department of Justice are now willing to have the courage to right the horrible mistake that they made.This was a grave miscarriage of justice that the American people fully understood. And it is everybody's hope that it is about to be corrected.So that is a big announcement that I heard 10 minutes ago and I guess obviously most of you folks have heard about, and in all fairness for all of the people that have suffered for doing so much less, including just recently four-star General James Cartwright, General Petraeus and many others. Perhaps finally justice will be done.With that being said, the rest of my speech is going to be so boring. Should I even make the speech? We will talk about borders, right? We will talk about trade. We'll bring back our jobs, we'll strengthen our military and let's get going, OK?I want to thank General Flynn, he's a great general and I want to thank you for being here, General. Thank you very much. Just before General Flynn was going up we heard this news. I said, "General get up there and keep them busy. We want to digest what just happened here." Thank you General.In 11 days we are going to win New Hampshire...... the state of my first victory. And we are going to win back the White House.We can't forget how big a news that is, we can't lose track. It's a disaster, just like everything else in this administration.It has just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive double-digit hike in Obamacare premiums, including a 116 percent premium hike to our very good friends in the great state of Arizona. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world, where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half.In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be almost 60 percent, the Democratic governor said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare...... admitted it was all a fraud and he said it was passed because of the stupidity of the American voter. Hey, we're doing a lot of good work, aren't we? We're catching all of these people. We're doing a good job. Jonathan Gruber, there's another. See, we didn't forget. I never forgot Jonathan Gruber.I said you know, if I do this, we're going to run and his name came up and people forget after a week or two. I said I am never going to forget Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare and what he said. So we did not forget. Almost -- can you imagine, it's like a little more than a week before the election. We didn't forget the name Jonathan Gruber.But the only real stupidity is that shown by our politicians who passed this monstrosity over the furious objection of certain politicians and the American voter. Job-killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged. What I've just announced previously it might not be as rigged as I thought. Right? Right?The FBI -- I think they're going to right the ship, folks. I think they're going to right the ship.And they're going to save there reputation by doing so.Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, destroying American health care forever. She wants to expand Obamacare and make it even more expensive. I will repeal and replace Obamacare and we will replace it with a much less expensive plan and a plan that is much, much better.Because it's turned out, and I've been saying this from before it passed, Obamacare is a catastrophe beyond imagination. Insurers are leaving, doctors are quitting, companies are fleeing, workers' hours are being cut, part-time jobs are all over the place. Those beautiful full-time jobs that you used to have don't exist and deductibles are through the roof. You don't get to use it. We don't get rid of Obamacare, we have no choice. But if we don't get rid of it, our health care system is gone forever. We'll never have another chance.And by the way, if we don't win this election, you're never going to have another chance either, that I can tell you. Never going to happen again. Repealing Obamacare is one of the single most important reasons we must win on November 8th.But real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington, and again, maybe that's happened. Wow. We have a big day.No think of it, I won my first primary in New Hampshire and I am getting here and the news this morning is -- this is bigger than Watergate. This is bigger than Watergate in my opinion. This is bigger than Watergate.Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. That alone to me -- there were more serious things done, but how does it get much more? But that was so obvious. She gets the subpoena and she bleaches and deletes 33,000 emails. That to me -- because it was so simple, you know? Not -- it's not about the sale of the uranium that nobody knows what it means -- I know what it means -- to Russia. Then she talks to me about Russia. 20 percent of the uranium in our country to Russia.But you know, the deletion of 33,000 emails, boy, that just sort of is so out there, after receiving a subpoena from the United States government. She lied to Congress, she lied to the FBI, she made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer. The Clinton crew gave more than $675,000 to the wife of the deputy director of the FBI...-- and the man who was overseeing the investigation into Hillary's illegal server, but maybe that takes care of itself. Right now that takes care of itself I think, I think. Very proud that the FBI was willing to do this actually, really, very proud.Just yesterday we learned that Bill Clinton's right-hand man pushed for Clinton's foundation donors and other large corporations to funnel as much as $66 million in personal profit to Bill and Hillary Clinton.This man explained that the cozy relationship between his consulting firm to foundation and Clinton's personal income had helped Bill and Hillary enrich themselves, and obtain in-kind services, including personal travel, hospitality, vacations, and the like.The same people paying Bill Clinton for speeches were lobbying Hillary Clinton at the same -- the same time, same time.And -- these people are seriously corrupt.And by the way 50 to 1 in ads, 50 to 1. And if you look at Florida, we're winning. Ohio, we're winning. Iowa we're winning.Doing great in New Hampshire. I think we're going to have a tremendous victory in Pennsylvania.In fact when this news -- when this news of the FBI's investigation, when it just happened a little while ago, they said Mr. Trump, I think they'd understand, we could skip your speech in New Hampshire this is so big. I said I don't have the courage to skip the speech in New Hampshire. Believe me, I don't have the courage.I'm not skipping New Hampshire, I never will. You know, when I won, and you remember because I go around and we had the big rallies, and they said oh, the big rallies will never work in New Hampshire, you have to sit down and have dinner with everybody. I said that's like -- that's a lot of dinners. They don't expect that.But you remember when we met, and I'd have a lot of small meetings too with people, we'd talk, and New Hampshire more than any other place taught me about drugs flowing into this country. And your police department, so great, the police departments in New Hampshire, they told me. I went to some, I became friendly with some.And I never knew -- I never knew, honestly, I knew it was bad, I never knew it was so bad. And I said to the people of New Hampshire, because more than any other place, you look at the beautiful little roadways and lakes and streams, and everything is so beautiful, the trees, and you say how could they have a drug problem here? It doesn't fit.But I'd sit down with groups, and I said what's your biggest problem? And I figured they'd say maybe the veterans which are suffering greatly in this area, we understand that. But it was always -- and we'll solve that problem. But it was always, you know what, it was always heroine. I'd say heroine? What do you mean? And I learned so much. And I said to the people of New Hampshire that if I win, which I did with New Hampshire, if I win, and I also said and if I go all the way, we are going to stop the inflow of drugs into New Hampshire and into our country 100 percent.And I gave the people of New Hampshire my pledge, more than anybody else in this case, because they really taught me about what's happening with the world of drugs pouring in. Hard to believe. It's just so, so strange when you look and see the beauty of this place and then you see that heroin and drugs are your number one problem, by far.Anyway, with months these lobbyists sealed over $26 billion in foreign arms deals, including over $19 billion in Qatar, some people would say Qatar, which happened to be off Bill Clinton. $1 million as a birthday gift for a few minutes of face time. $1 million. The lobbyists, one of whom was the sister-in-law to Hillary Clinton's current campaign chairman, received hundreds of thousands of dollars in fees, the contractor got billions of dollars in contracts, and Hillary Clinton got her campaign cash and money for her foundation.And you know I'm putting up tremendous amounts of money. Today I wrote another check for $10 million. I'm spending money like crazy. I'll probably have over maybe close to or over $100 million of my money spent on the campaign. But there's something nice about that. Unless I lose, in which case I say, "What was that all about?" But we're gonna do what's right for you, not what's right for some contributor or special interest.Hillary put the office of the Secretary of State up for sale and if she ever got the chance, believe me she would put the office -- and you know what office I'm talking about -- the office called the Oval Office up for sale too. I propose a contract with the American voter which will end corruption and give government back to our great people. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words I'm about to say, and I never loved this expression but now I love it because it's become -- it's become the hottest expression. If we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. -- when we win, OK -- and we are going to drain the swamp.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. You've been suffering with the jobs. The jobs have gone like candy being taken from a baby. New growth numbers just released put the average growth rate for this year at a disastrous 1.5 percent. If China goes down to 7 or 8 percent GDP, you know it's like a national catastrophe. Last quarter we were at 1 percent. Our job numbers last week were horrible. They were anemic, as the expression goes. They like to say anemic, that was the word they used. Obama is the first president in modern history not to have a single year of 3 percent growth.And they say it's hard because we're a large county. Well India is a much larger country and they're at 8 percent. China is at 7 percent. And China's not happy. So we're at around 1 percent and we just keep going along, just keep going along losing our jobs to Mexico and every other place. Forty-seven million Americans are on food stamps, and 45 million people -- think of it, this is our country -- are living in poverty.Meanwhile our trade deficit with the world is now nearly $800 billion a year. You say, "Who negotiates these contracts?" We're living through Obama. It's true. You know instead of campaigning for Hillary Clinton he ought to be in the White House in the Oval Office negotiating trade deals, beating ISIS, taking care of our veterans which he does not do. We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. They're stealing our jobs. Greatest in the history of the world. New Hampshire has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported strongly by Hillary. We've lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary disaster.The Trump administration will immediately begin negotiating and we will start this negotiation so fast. We will start a negotiation on NAFTA, and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much, much better trade deal.And I won't go into the details, but because they're different tax systems, they're under a VAT system and we're under our system, but because of the fact that they're under a much different tax system, the day the deal was signed it was a defective deal, with us having a massive, at least 17 percent disadvantage.So it's complicated. I'm not going to bother you or bore you with it, but we've been working with a defective deal for years, and nobody, no politician ever went back to renegotiate it. We're going to get it done, folks, so easily.If a company wants to fire their workers and go to Mexico or another country and then they think they're going to ship their products back into the United States, we will charge them a tax of 35 percent.So when you think these companies, which right now are out there negotiating to leave here, they'll leave New Hampshire, they'll leave Pennsylvania, they're gonna leave Ohio, they're gonna leave all of these places, all of our great places and great states. And right now as we're talking, they're negotiating deals.Mexico is the eighth wonder of the world in terms of the new plants. A friend of mine, Bill Plante, he's the biggest, he said the eighth wonder of the world what's happening in Mexico. And I say, and I tell this to people, what about us? He said meh, not gonna be -- it's gonna be the other way around.... with their product, you know what they're gonna say? They're gonna say let's say, we're not gonna move, and they're gonna stay. It's very simple. But the politicians don't want to do that because they're controlled -- they're controlled by the people that give them their campaign contributions and probably other things. We will -- does anybody know what I mean by that?We will also stand up to Chinese currency manipulation and we will stop the Transpacific Partnership.We will become a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world and it has now spread into our country. There are right now 1,000 open ISIS investigations across the United States, more than at any time that we've ever had. Now, Hillary wants to increase by 550 percent...... the massive number of Syrian refugees flowing into our country. That's over the Obama numbers, and those are thousands and thousands of people. A Trump administration will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we'll help them will safe havens and we'll get other countries over there, like the Gulf states who have nothing but money, we have $20 trillion in debt. We'll get them to pay, they gotta do their share. We'll lead it, we'll help, they'll pay, but you know what? We can't let people into this country that we don't know about -- we don't know.Let me state this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected president, I am going to keep...When...We love New Hampshire, I love this place. I love this place. By the way, you know, we're leading in Florida, we're leading in all these places. The recent poll said we're two down in New Hampshire. You know what I said? I don't think so, I don't think so.These polls, these polls, these are called dirty polls, you know what that is? These are false. I don't think so. She comes up here, she has four people, and it's like oh, we have a wonderful crowd. I don't think so. I think we're winning New Hampshire big. OK. So we'll change it. When I'm elected president...... I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. Boy, you people have energy, you're great.Well, let's face it, it's been a long time, right? It's been a long time. You've been waiting a long time for the right person, but you do have energy.You know what's happening? A lot of these places...A lot of the different places, reports are coming out. They hate to write it, you know the dishonest media.But people -- by the way, great people, oh they're the worst, they're so dishonest. They are so dishonest, folks. But a lot of these reports coming out in the early voting states, people are coming up that have never voted. These are great Americans, these are great people, but they've just never seen anybody that they wanted to like -- they've never heard people say we're going to actually bring back your jobs. We're not going to let companies leave us and fire everybody and move and then let the product pour into our country with no tax.No, no, just go ahead, leave, fire all our people, move to Mexico, make the product, sell your air conditioners -- Carrier's an example, they're leaving -- they might not leave, they're probably all about ready to change their mind. But just let your product come right in, no tax, no nothing. I mean, how stupid is this? How stupid?And I'm a free-trader, I'm a fair trader. But we have the wrong people represent us. So what's happening is these lines in Florida are four blocks long. They were never like that. They've never seen anything like it. And in Tennessee, a great congressman, been there for 25 years, said to me, "I've never seen -- we have never seen anything like it."People are coming out that haven't voted in years. People are coming out, they literally -- they hadn't voted in years. So they're not polled because, you know, unless you voted like in the last election, they don't want to poll you. So, people are coming out that hadn't voted in years. Happening in Texas. They haven't voted in years.And people that have never even voted, and yet they're great Americans. They just never saw somebody that they wanted to vote for. And they're coming out and they've got the Trump shirt and they've got the hat, they've got buttons all over the place, you know.Now, who knows -- who knows? They may have all of the Trump stuff and you never know. Maybe they're voting for Crooked Hillary Clinton, but I don't think so, right? I don't think so.History has taught us that we don't think so. So, I think we're doing great.And yes, on the border, we have no choice, we will build a wall and Mexico will pay for the wall. Got to stop the drugs.Got to stop the drugs. Remember my pledge to everybody but in particular to New Hampshire, because I know what you're going through with the drugs. I know what your incredible law enforcement, your police and your fire departments, because I see where they're helping so much. Believe me, they're -- they're not spoken about.And how about where they're shooting? During fires, they're shooting at the firemen. Now, this is a new phenomenon. They're shooting at firemen. They're shooting bullets at firemen going to fires and fighting fires. So we have a divided country and we're going to make our country love again. We're going to bring it like this room.Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this administration. This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root. You've heard that story, you've seen it, you've read about it.The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered federal custody and then was released into the United States community under the policies of this White House. He was released again and again, after crime after crime and now is at large. Sarah graduated from college just the day before with a 4.0 grade point average, top in her class. She was violently, violently killed. Outstanding young woman. I know her parents; they're incredible. Also among the victims of Obama-Clinton open borders policy was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21-year-old convenience store clerk in Mesa, Arizona. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted of burglary who had also been released from federal custody. And so many people said please, please, please don't release him, he's violent. And he shot Grant through the head.Another victim who we've all read about and known about, Kate Steinle, gunned down in the sanctuary city of San Francisco by an illegal immigrant.And this person was deported five previous times. And now, he's got a good lawyer and the case will go on and on and on. He's got a lawyer, I see them in court all the time. The case will go on and on. Shot in the back while standing with her father. Great parents, great brother.Then there is the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records a mile long but who did not meet the Obama administration's priorities for removal. People begged that they be incarcerated or be moved out of the country, but our geniuses wouldn't listen.In California, a 64-year-old Air Force veteran, Marilyn Pharis, was sexually assaulted and beaten to death with a hammer. Her killer had been arrested on multiple occasions but was never deported. People asked please, please deport him. This is what happened. This is a crime wave that never ends. I can tell you it's thousands of cases like this.When I'm president, believe me, it will end.Not only will a wall keep out the dangerous cartels and criminals, but will also keep out the drugs, remember New Hampshire, and the heroin poisoning our youth. Our youth is being poisoned before they get a chance.And by the way, I've met plenty of people in New Hampshire that are not our youth that have a tremendous problem, and I want to tell you, we're going to work with people, we're going to set up programs, we're going to try everything we can to get them unaddicted, unaddicted.So as I said, when I won the New Hampshire primary, I promised the people of New Hampshire that we would stop drugs from pouring into your community and I guarantee you we will. You will be so proud of your president, you will be so proud of your community.You will be so proud.I just want to say in closing -- I just want to say in closing that we have an amazing movement going on. A movement like they've never seen before, a movement that hopefully won't be stopped. We have a movement that the biggest people in the world of the media, the biggest, have said they've never seen anything like it before. Every -- every crowd, every auditorium.The other night, we had a situation. We had thousands and thousands of people and I said to the fire marshal, isn't it possible to let more in? We had thousands of people in this massive field and we had many thousands outside of the gates they wouldn't let in and I said, couldn't we let them in? And they said, we can't. I said, but there's no fire, we're outside. He said, it's stampede, Mr. Trump, we're worried about a stampede.And it's a stampede of love. It's true. It's not a stampede -- it's a stampede of love.Because there was so many people. They said we have very strong security guards, but Mr. Trump, they're not nearly strong as 45,000 people come charging forward. So I fully understood it. But we have something going on that's so special. It's so special. We're going to reduce your taxes, we're going to simplify your taxes. We're going to make your businesses welcome in our country.We're going to reduce the taxes for middle-income people. We call them the forgotten men and women. Greatly simplify your returns. The only company that I can think of that won't like us is H&R Block, they will not like us.They're not gonna like Trump too much.But we'll greatly simplify your taxes. And your businesses -- we're taking it from 35 percent, which is one of the highest in the world, just about the highest, down to one of the lowest in the world, 15 percent.We're getting rid of a lot of the regulations that are stopping growth. Tremendous amounts of regulation are killing your small businesses and your big businesses. So we're gonna have a very tax- friendly country again, and it's gonna mean jobs, it's gonna mean expansion, it's gonna mean new companies growing.We are going to create the border. We are going to stop the drugs. We're gonna have people come into our country. We want people to come into our country, but they have to come in legally. They have to come in through a legal process. We want a lot of people to come in.We're also going to very importantly appoint justices to the Supreme Court...... who you can be proud of and who will respect the Constitution of the United States.We're going to save our Second Amendment, which is under unbelievable siege.We're going to help big league on education, we're going to go with choice, so important, and we're going to terminate Common Core and bring education local.Our military is depleted. We're going to rebuild our military. We are going to lead through strength.And hopefully, we're not gonna have to use our military but I will say this. ISIL -- we're getting rid of ISIS. We're getting rid of ISIS.ISIS is -- we have no choice. By the way, not since medieval times has anyone seen chopping off of heads, drowning in steel cages, burying in sand. Not since -- not since medieval times. It all grew during the tenure of Obama and Hillary Clinton.ISIS -- you know she stands up and she says what she's gonna do. Well, she was there. It came out of the vacuum because we should have never gone into Iraq, but once we did, we should have gone out the right way, not the wrong way. And the way they went out was so bad, so bad, including giving back Mosul, which now they're fighting to take back. And it would have been nice -- the element of surprise. Do we agree? Does anybody not agree?The element of surprise. We don't use the element of surprise. We use the element of tell them everything we can possibly tell them, give them plenty of time to get ready and then attack. And it turns out to be a lot tougher than they ever thought.But we're going to have a country that you're going to be proud of again. We're going to have a president that hopefully you will be proud of.I will work so hard for every community. I'll be working very hard for the African-American community, for the Hispanic community. I'll be working hard for every community. And we're gonna have this divided nation come together. And I just want to say we're gonna make America strong again, we're gonna make America -- doesn't sound nice, but we have no choice -- wealthy again.But we are going to make America great again.And I want to thank everybody in New Hampshire. Get out and vote. You're very special people. You're very, very special people. God bless you, get out and vote.Thank you. Thank you, New Hampshire.Women for Trump. Women for Trump. Thank you.One of the most beautiful places on earth. Thank you very much.As you might have heard earlier today, the FBI...... after discovering new emails is reopening their investigation into Hillary Clinton.I have great respect for the FBI for righting this wrong. The American people fully understand her corruption and we hope all, all justice will finally be served.This is the biggest political scandal since Watergate and I'm sure that it will be properly handled from this point forward. Thank you.Now getting back to things that don't sound quite as exciting but they're so important. Right? In 11 days we're going to win the State of Maine. And we are going to win back the White House.We're going to have honest government once again. Hillary bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a Congressional subpoena. Remember that. After. And lied to Congress under oath about her illegal server. She put her office up for sale to large corporations and foreign powers and special interests. All the while the world fell apart. She unleashed ISIS, put Iran on a path to nuclear weapons and threw the Middle East into total turmoil. It's time for new leadership and it's time for good judgment.Time for good judgment. We will lower taxes, raise incomes, renegotiate our terrible trade deals and unleash the power of American energy including the production of shale oi, natural gas and clean coal. My reforms on taxes, regulations, trade and American energy will create 25 million new jobs in a decade and achieve 4 percent growth and you folks could use it, is that right? You could use it. It's all outlined in detail in my Contract With America. And American voters, I'll tell you what -- we have the greatest people on earth. That's one thing I have learned so strongly by doing this large-scale every state I'm going to, to every state and I love it. I love the people of our country.My 100-day pledge to make our government honest, our economy prosperous and our country safe. Early voting is underway so make sure you get out and vote. Who's voted?Everybody. Goodbye folks, you've already voted.We don't have to speak any more. You all voted. Wow. That's great. That's great. That's really amazing. Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.It has just been announced that Americans are experiencing another massive double-digit in Obamacare premiums. Now this was announced by Washington, and believe me, the number they gave -- around 25 percent -- is peanuts, peanuts compared to the real numbers. In the great State of Arizona, a place I love, they are going to have a hike of 116 percent.Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world, where people wind up with premiums double what they ever thought. Doubled. And there coverage is cut in half. In Minnesota where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor said, "The Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable."Jonathan Gruber -- you remember him? The architect of Obamacare admitted it was all a fraud, and he said it was passed because of the stupidity of the American voter. Ah. But the only stupidity was that of the officials who rammed through this horrible, horrible law over the objections of the American voter. And he's right. Very few people, if anybody, almost nobody read it. Who said that? Very smart. They didn't read it. They don't read anything. They don't read a trade deal is I'll tell you what they don't read. They don't read NAFTA. They don't read TPP.Job-killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged. Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, make it even more expensive. It's no good folks, and it's so expensive by far, but it's no good. It's no good. The deductibles, it does work. Repealing and replacing Obamacare is one of the single most important reasons we must win on November 8th.Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to take our government back from the donors and the special interests and maybe these folks right back here, the corrupt media. The corrupt media. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed our words, not my words, our words. If we win on November 8th, we are going to -- when?When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C., and we are going to drain the swamp. I tell people I didn't like that expression, that phrase. But everybody else did in the whole world. It's all over the world. It's trending. They come up, Mr. Trump, drain the swamp. It's trending. Drain that swamp. It's trending. I said, really? All of a sudden you start to like it. You know, Frank Sinatra was really sort of friend of mine in a sense, and he didn't like My Way. But he got to like it after singing it for about two times, when it went to number one. You know, so you never know.But it certainly is a proper description, isn't it? My ethics reform and the plan include the following. A constitutional amendment that imposes term limits on all members of Congress.A five-year ban on White House and Congressional officials becoming lobbyists. A complete ban on lobbyists raising money for American elections. And, remember, that's of the foreign variety. Do we want foreign lobbyists raising money? Tell me about that. No more.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring our jobs back home. We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. It really is. The greatest job theft in the history of the world. Maine has lost. What a place, though, what a place. You talk about land, good land, beautiful land. Maine has lost 38 percent of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA and China trade deals went into effect. Think of it, 38 percent. And they were approved by Bill Clinton, supported heavily by Hillary Clinton.Who works in a shoe factor? Anybody here? Said they're mostly gone. Is that right? They're mostly gone. You mean -- well, I would have said 10 years ago people would have raised their hands. All right, we'll bring them back. We're going to bring... I'll tell you what, we're going to bring our jobs back. Now how's that for an answer? I say who works in a shoe factory, and the guy shouts out they're all gone. As part of my contract, we will stop the TPP, and we will renegotiate NAFTA, and we will terminate NAFTA if we don't get the deal we want, and replace it with a fair deal and a good deal for American workers.We're all, at the center of our jobs plan, is tax reform. You don't mind having lower taxes, do you? My contract calls for lowering taxes on our businesses from 35 percent down to 15 percent. We're the highest taxed nation in the world, and that's one of the reasons, a prime reason, why our companies are all leaving. One of the highest taxed nations in the world, just about the highest. And we're going to be one of the lower taxed. Not the lowest, but close.It cuts taxes for the middle class families by 35 percent. We will become a rich nation again. So important. I tell the story, a wonderful woman came up to me after a (speech), said I love you, Mr. Trump. I love your speeches, I think everything is great, but could you please stop saying we're going to be a rich nation again? It sounds so crass. And I said, you know what, we have no choice. We've got to be. We are right now -- I want you -- how many -- how many trillion do we owe? Guess what? That's exactly right.And how much has it been increased since Obama became President? Right? It doubled, it doubled. In eight years, less than eight years, it doubled. And I said, I'm sorry, but to do what we have to do, which is to build up our military, to take care of our vets, to take care of your Social Security without cuts, to do the things we have to do, I'm sorry, ma'am, we have to become a rich nation again. And she said, well, I understand. It just doesn't sound good. And that's the old story, politically correct. Forget about politically correct.But to be a rich nation again, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton unleashed ISIS onto the world and it spread all over America. There are now 1,000 open ISIS investigations going on as we speak in the United States.A lot of people agree with you.We have seen attacks in San Bernardino, California, at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, all over. I mean, the World Trade Center we've seen too. We've seen attacks in Paris, we've seen attacks in Nice, we've seen attacks in Germany. We're seeing attacks all over the world and we don't want to be the stupid people and we've had it. We lose our jobs. We allow people to come into our country we know nothing about, what their thought process is, where they come from, what they want to do.We're going to build the wall and Mexico's going to pay for the wall, believe me.We'll build the wall and Mexico will pay for it, believe me. And we're going to stop the drugs from pouring in through our southern border and poisoning your children and poisoning a lot more than your children.You know, the border patrol agents, 16,500, plus ICE, tremendous number, they endorsed me. First time they've ever endorsed -- these are great people. By the way...... they are so mistreated. They are great people. They want to do their job right. You know, it's much harder -- their job is much harder if I win because we're going to have them do their job. Right now, they just have to stand there, let everyone walk right by them. And I was amazed because they came and they endorsed me. I didn't solicit it. I didn't know they could even do it. Maybe they can't do it, but they felt they had to do it. These are great people. They want to do their job.One of the things I said to them, I said, "Tell me about the wall." Really important, they said, "Mr. Trump, you have no idea how important." They want drugs to stop coming into our country. But you look at New Hampshire, you look at yourselves, you look at so many -- I mean, almost -- almost every state. And I learned most about it from New Hampshire because when I -- I won New Hampshire and I really got to know the people. And they said that drugs -- the biggest problem they have, heroin addicting their populace.And really, they mentioned their children, but it's -- it's far more than the young people. It's people. It's everybody. And they said this and I learned so much. It was incredible. And I made the statement to them, but I made it to everybody, that if we win, we're going to stop that crap from coming into our country. We're going to stop it.And we're going to work with the people who are so addicted and we're going to try like hell to get them off that addiction. Such a problem.Such a problem. So we're going to build a wall and Mexico is going to pay for the wall, OK? Just don't even think about it.And the agents, when they endorsed me, I said, "Is it important?" They said -- because I wanted a little reaffirmation. And they said, "Mr. Trump, so important, you have no idea. So important. You need it." And it made me feel good, because frankly, if they said we didn't need it, I don't know what I would've done.I don't know what I would've done. But we do need it and it's going to happen and we're going to stop the drugs from coming in. And we're going to have people come into our country, a lot of people come into our -- we're going to have big, beautiful doors, OK? We're gonna have a lot of people come into our country, but they're gonna come into our country legally, legally. OK?Hillary wants massive immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world where ISIS operates, including she wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees over and above the thousands and thousands that are already coming into our country.We don't want ISIS in our country. ISIS is coming in through -- and she knows this. She made a statement. You know, she made a statement that ISIS is coming in through the refugees. She knows it. The Hillary refugee plan would leave us with generations of terrorism, radicalism and extremism inside of our shores, and there's no question about that.Take a look at what's happening in Germany. Take a look at what's happening to some of these countries. It's a whole different place. I have a friend used to go to Paris. Love Paris. I said to him recently, "How was Paris this summer?" He said, "We don't go to Paris." He said Paris is no longer Paris, which is obviously true.I only want to admit people who will support this country and love its people. That's what I want.And by the way, we have heart. You have heart, I have heart, big heart. But we're going to build safe havens and we're going to have the Gulf states -- plenty of money. So much money, so much money they have and they haven't done their job. They're going to pay for it. We're not going to pay for it. We owe $2 trillion -- we have $20 trillion. We're not -- we're not doing it. OK? We're not doing it.We're gonna have beautiful safe havens. They're gonna pay for it. We want to take care of their people, but we can't have people that we know nothing about coming into our country. I talk and I tell the story of the great Trojan horse. We're not going to be a modern- day Trojan horse, that I can tell you.We are not taking risks when it comes to the safety of the American people. We have enough problems, folks, in case you don't know. Does anybody think we don't have any problems? Boy, do we have problems.So let me state this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected president, I am going to keep...When I'm elected...When, when, when. I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.Hillary also said she wants totally open borders. A Trump administration will secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build that wall. Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this administration.This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root, who you probably read about. The man who killed her arrived at the border, entered through federal custody and then was released into the United States community under the policies, the horrible, weak and disgusting policies of this White House. He was released again and again, crime after crime, and is now at large. Sarah graduated from college with a 4.0, top in her class. And it was the day after, the day after college. The day after, killed beautiful Sarah Root. And I got to know her family and they're incredible people, and they're devastated. And frankly they'll never be, even with time, they'll never be the same. First in her class, right after graduation.Also among the victims of Obama-Clinton open borders policy was Grant Ronnebeck, a 21-year-old convenience store clerk from Mesa, Arizona. He was murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member previously convicted, very violent, of burglary, and was also released from federal custody. Now the people that knew him, the people that knew this person said, please don't release him. He's violent, he's a criminal, please don't release him. They release him and he killed Grant instantaneously, almost immediately.Another victim is Kate Steinle. You know that from San Francisco, gunned down, sanctuary city. By an illegal immigrant deported five previous times. Kate Steinle, gunned down holding the hand of her father, looking at how beautiful the Golden Gate Bridge was. Right? Gunned down in the back.Then there's the case of 90-year-old Earl Olander, who was brutally beaten and left to bleed to death in his home. The perpetrators were illegal immigrants with criminal records a mile long, who did not meet the Obama administration's priorities for removal, even though other people were saying please, please, get these people incarcerated or get them out.This crime wave will end when I'm President. We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense cuts and rebuild our badly-depleted military. You know, we have -- you probably saw this on television, documentaries. We have fighter jets that are so old we can't even get parts for them. They get parts from museums and parts from plane graveyards. You can't even get parts. And our great young people are flying these jets. They're so old, and I mean the enemy has better planes than we do. And in many cases they got them from us.It's all going to change. That includes rebuilding our badly- depleted Navy, which is now the smallest it has been since World War I. My plan builds the 350 ship Navy we need, and everybody's requesting.And that means a lot more work for -- I'm sure you've never heard of this place, Bath Iron Works, here in Maine. Right? Hey, you've heard of it. I thought -- I maybe thought, maybe I thought you would have never of Bath. The rebuilding of our military will be a nationwide effort from Bath Iron Works of (Portsmith), and Norfolk Naval Shipyards, to Wright-Patterson Air Force base, and all around the country, all around the country. We're building here, folks, just in case -- just in case you had any questions.We also need a new foreign policy that puts America First, a term you haven't even heard until I came along. Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia, which could lead very much to World War III. That's wonderful, wonderful. She wants to get into World War III over Syria, great. To all Americans I say it is now time for new leadership.Just for those that want to know a sad fact, so we have spent right now, as of now, $6 trillion, $6 trillion, in the Middle East. We could have rebuilt our country twice. And the Middle East right now is in far worse shape that it was 15 years ago, when we started this monster, we unleashed this monster. Think of it, $6 trillion we've spent. And forget that, the deaths, the deaths. So we've gotten death, we've gotten debt, we've gotten tremendous amounts of money spent.And what do we have? We have a place that's 100 times worse than it was 15 years ago. And now it's a mess. By the way, we have no choice. We will stop ISIS so strongly, so quickly.And when we attack, we will not be giving them advance notice, OK? You see what's going on. You see what's going on. Advance notice. We're going into Mosul in four months. No, we're going in in three months. We will be attacking Mosul from the back, and then the front, and then we're going... These people. General George Patton is spinning in his grave, right? Spinning in his grave.And by the way, we have a great general with us, General Flynn, General Mike Flynn. Where is he? General Mike, come here. Come here, come here.Aw, he's good. They might not like him that much because he's a little too tough, you know. See a General McArthur, General Patton, guys like Mike, General Kellogg, we have such great people with us. We have over 200 general and admirals supporting us. Can you imagine it? Endorsing me.We have -- we have 21 Congressional Medal -- Congressional Medal of Honor recipients, 21 endorsing us. These are incredible people.We have unbelievable people endorsing us, including a lot of the folks that have given me medals and they've given me their medals. I said, "Don't take it, don't take it, don't do it. Keep it." "Mr. Trump, we want you to have them." These are the most unbelievable people. These are the most unbelievable people we have in our country.Just think what we can accomplish in our first 100 days.We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. That's a big deal, I want to tell you. It's a big deal.The business people would rather have that than the tax cut.We're going to remove the burdens of American small business. I mean, we are -- you have to see the burden of these regulations -- the burden of these regulations on small business and big business are unbelievable. And we're not gonna get our jobs back unless we unleash our companies.Gonna make childcare affordable and very much more affordable.We'll provide school choice and we are going to put an end to Common Core. We're going to have education local.We're going to rebuild our military. We have the greatest people in the world in our military. Very depleted. We are going to take care of our great veterans. They have been treated horribly.We will reduce surging crime and support the men and women of law enforcement.I don't know if you know and you've been hearing it, but you've been hearing it only from me because they won't tell you, the murder rate in the United States is the highest it's been in 45 years. Nobody hears that. They don't tell you that. They'll never tell you that.We're gonna save our Second Amendment, which is under siege like you wouldn't believe.And we're going to appoint so importantly justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States. It's very important.Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams to another day. But really, you and I know that means another decade and many decades, in fact, if we keep going along like we are right now.It's like our politics are caught in a great time warp. We keep electing the same people who keep making the same mistakes and who keep offering the same old tired excuses. These career politicians, like Hillary Clinton, keep telling us that things can't change, that we can't try new solutions. Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things that can't change and wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C.And you're right, she's been telling things for 30 years. Nothing happens. When she talks about the tax code, I say why didn't you change it? When she talks about the military, I say why didn't you do something about it? It's all talk. It's all talk. When she talks about "I will stop jobs from leaving, " where have you been? She's been a senator, she's been a secretary, it's all talk. And take a look at her record as a senator, and take a look at her record as Secretary of State, it's a disaster. I'm asking you to dream big, to push for bold change, and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love for this country. That says movement.I have a message for all doubter in Washington. The future belongs to the dreamers, not the cynics and the critics. We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the daughters, and not the special interests.And by the way, just in case you didn't know this, I did very well on the other side. I know the other side very well. I also love this country, and I saw that this country truly was headed in the wrong direction, and maybe irretrievable. So there's a lot of work, it's not easy. We had 17 people, now we have one left, but we are going to make America great again, believe me.Once again, we will have a government of, by, and for the people. Together, we will make America wealthy again. Get out and vote November 8th, for about the three people that's haven't voted. By the way, who hasn't -- so tell me something, who has not? You haven't voted and you're in the... you're fired.Thank you very much, everybody.I love you too. I love you too.I love you too.As you've heard, earlier today, the FBI, after discovering new email ---- is reopening their investigation into Hillary Clinton.And be delivered.In her very brief remarks tonight, Hillary Clinton tried to politicize this investigation by attacking and falsely accusing the FBI Director of only sending the letter to Republicans -- another Clinton lie. As it turned out, the letter was sent to both Republican and Democratic leaders in Congress. The FBI would never have reopened this case at this time unless it were a most egregious criminal offense.As you know, I've had plenty of words about the FBI lately, but I give them great credit for having the courage to right this horrible wrong. Justice will prevail.Prior to today's events, I was going to start off this speech by talking about how great we've been doing the polls.We've been running an issue-based campaign, focused on change, accountability, and, of course, repealing and replacing Obamacare.We're campaigning all over the country with a plan to bring back our jobs and provide safety for our families. In recent days, Remington polls -- which is highly respected -- showed us surging four points ahead in Ohio ---- going three points ahead in North Carolina.We're up, according to Bloomberg, at least two points in Florida.And, by the way, the people standing on lines in Florida, and so many other places, are unbelievable -- early voting states. And a lot of them have red hats; they have white hats; they have pins; they have shirts that happen to say "Make America Great Again."Where they have the whole deal and plenty of buttons, we've got their vote. But the lines have been incredible all over the country. We've pulled --Thank you. We've pulled ahead nationally in numerous polls, and this was all before this recent disaster for her, but justice for the country, occurred.We had gaps, but we are really moving. And I just wanted to say that, because I don't know what's going to happen now. And, by the way -- speaking of Iowa, and speaking of polls -- the Des Moines register -- not my favorite paper ---- has us up four points in Iowa.In 11 days, we are going to win the state of Iowa and we are going to win back the White House.Early voting is underway, so make sure you get out and vote. It's a movement like nobody has ever seen before in this country. You must get out and vote. We're going to take back the White House; we're going to bring common sense to government; we're going to bring honesty to government. Get out and vote. Thank you.And boy am I spending a lot of my money and -- wow. Dan Gable would say, "You shouldn't be spending that much, Mr. Trump." But he knows about winning more than anybody, and I'll tell you what; we are going to win. We are going to win.And we're going to return power to the people.You know, I was on the other side and I understand the other side probably as well as anybody. But I love our country. I really love our country. And I saw what was happening and I had to do this. And on June 16th of last year, when I announced, coming down the escalator with Melania, I announced -- I want to tell you, it was one of the great honors of my life, because we are going to start winning again; our country is going to start being smart again; we're not going to let our jobs disappear; we're going to be the smart country once again -- the smart country.We have, as a movement -- like they've never seen before -- a once in a lifetime chance to clean up Washington, to bring fairness and growth back to our economy, and to stop wasting trillions and trillions of dollars in misguided wars and adventures overseas -- and we never win. We never win. Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing the disaster known as Obamacare.It's just been announced that Americans are going to experience another massive, double-digit hike -- double-digit -- these hikes. And, by the way, they were announced by the White House and they said 25 percent, which is terrible. But the real number is double that. The real number is much more than that. As an example, the great state of Arizona will have a 116 percent increase in premiums.Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is "the craziest thing in the world", where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. In Minnesota, where premiums increased will be probably more than 60 percent, the democratic governor has said "the Affordable Care Act is no long affordable." Horrible. Never worked. I said it before they approved it. Remember? How many times did President Obama say "You can have your doctor. You can keep your plan. You can keep your doctor"? Over and over. Twenty-eight times. And a lot of people, including democrats, voted for it because they believed him. But it was a lie.Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare -- remember? Remember that name from a year and a half ago? Remember that name? People forget; but, I don't forget -- admitted it was all a fraud. He said it was passed because of the stupidity of the American voter. Do you remember that guy?But the only stupidity was that the officials who rammed this through, over the objections of the America voter -- this is what happened -- did a tremendous disservice to our country. Job-killing Obamacare is just one more way the system is rigged. And I've been saying it for a long time. But, you know what? What happened today, starting with the FBI -- maybe the system will become a little less rigged. Beautiful.Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. She also wants to put illegal immigrants on Obamacare, further collapsing our healthcare system in this country.Repealing and replacing Obamacare is one of the single-most important reasons we must win on November 8th.By the way, who has voted, so far? Raise your hands?That's not great. Who is going to vote?All right; good. That's good. We're going to do great. Special place; special people; special place. Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to take our government back from the donors and the special interests. I used to be a donor. I used to be a special interest. Now I'm very much an outsider. I may be the all- time -- I might -- I might just be the all-time outsider -- the day I announced. One day I was an insider and then, boom, oh boy was I an outsider. But I knew what had to be done. I want the entire, corrupt Washington establishment to hear us, immediately, when we say -- when we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp. Drain the swamp.We're going to drain the swamp.By the way, they just told me this is a record-setting crowd for this place. Not bad. Not bad.And I don't have a guitar; I don't have an instrument, so that makes it even better.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. Right now, 70 million American women and children live in abject poverty -- or, something -- I mean, what's happening in this country. This is the United States of America. Think of that number. Forty- five percent of African-American children under the age of six live in poverty. Another two million Hispanic-Americans have fallen into poverty under the Obama administration. Forty thousand American veterans are homeless -- our great people. These are our great people, yet our government spends hundreds of billions providing benefits for people that are in our country illegally.We are going to turn it around and that begins with a plan to lower taxes on American businesses from 35 percent, which is the highest anywhere in the world, to 15 percent, which is among the lowest.And that includes massive tax cuts for family farms. Do you like that? Family farms.You have some great farms, I will -- we're going to protect our family farmers. Hillary Clinton's plan will shut down family farms all over the nation. She will do this, not only through radical EPA regulation -- and you know what's happening. The farmers are telling me all the time -- EPA is destroying them. But, also, by raising taxes on family farms and all businesses to rates as high as 45 and 50 percent. Adding to the pain, Hillary wants to substantially increase the Estate Tax on family farms. In other words, it will be very hard to leave your farm to your children and your heirs.I'm eliminating the death tax.On top of that, her anti-energy agenda will radically drive up the cost of energy; another attack on agriculture. I will end this war on the American farmer. The American farmers are incredible people. These are incredible people and we will end that war.We will also reverse the EPA intrusion and eliminate the anti- farmer regulations, of which there are so many, that it makes it very hard for you to compete with the farms of other countries. We will protect corn-based ethanol, importantly.And we will also cancel billions of dollars in climate change payments to the United Nations, and we will use that money to help rebuild America's infrastructure.It's going to be America First. We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. Hillary wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees flowing into our country.And that's over the thousands and thousands and thousands of people coming from Syria. We don't know who they are, where they're from. They're coming from Syria under President Obama. She wants to increase that number by 550 percent. The Hillary refugee plan would leave us with generations of terrorism, radicalism and extremism inside of our shores. So let me state this as clearly as I can: When I'm elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists out of this country.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And, yes, we will build the wall. And, yes, Mexico will pay for the wall.Hundred percent. Hundred percent. We have a massive trade deficit with Mexico. Great, wonderful people. I met with the leader three months ago -- President of Mexico -- very good meeting. But we have a massive trade deficit with Mexico. Numbers are staggering. The cost of the wall is peanuts compared to what we're talking about. They will pay for the wall in form or the other. They may not know that yet, but that's OK.Countless Americans who have died in recent years would be alive today if not for the open border policies of this administration. This includes incredible Americans like 21-year-old Sarah Root, who was right from this area -- an incredible young woman, and I've spent time with her amazing family. The illegal immigrant who killed Sarah arrived at the border, enter federal custody, and then was released into the United States community under the policies of our very weak and very sad White House. He was released again after he killed Sarah, and is now at-large. Sarah graduated from college with a 4.0 index -- top in her class -- the day before she was killed. Her parents are great people. I've gotten to know them; they are great people -- just great people -- devastated -- always devastated -- will always be devastated.Hillary has pledged open borders and supports sanctuary cities.Under my contract with the American voter, we are going to cancel all funding for sanctuary cities immediately. We also need a new foreign policy that puts American first. Hillary's policies have caused disasters in Iraq, Syria, Libya, and unleashed ISIS with the great vacuum -- created the vacuum. And now she stands up and says "I will get rid of ISIS". We didn't have ISIS until she came in. They created -- look, we shouldn't have gone to Iraq. Once we did, the way they got out was a disaster. They created this great, open vacuum and ISIS formed.Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East and now it's worse shape over there than ever before by a factor of ten. Think of it. Think of it -- $6 trillion -- we could have rebuilt our country twice. Imagine if we used this money to rebuild America, including our inner-cities -- in Chicago, Detroit, Baltimore, Pittsburgh. Our failed establishment has dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe; have left our borders just totally wide open; and have shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries, cheered by the friends of Hillary who benefit from this, and always cheered on by the very dishonest media.In fact, the real question is, who's more dishonest? Crooked Hillary Clinton or the media? I don't know. It's a close -- honestly, these are among the most dishonest people in the world, believe me. Our corrupt political class has enriched themselves, but left our families with poverty, unemployment and rising crime. Now, Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, in conflict with a nuclear armed Russia, which could very well lead to World War III. This is over Syria, folks.To all Americans, I say it's time for new leadership.Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. We're going to eliminate unnecessary, job- killing regulations. We'll cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We're going to provide -- you're going to like this -- school choice and put an end to common core, which is a disaster. We'll bring our education local.We will rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans, who have not been properly taken care of.We have tremendous veteran and military support in this campaign. We're going to reduce surging crime and support the men and women of law enforcement.And, by the way -- you won't hear this from the media -- we have the highest murder rate in this country in 45 years. You don't hear that from these people. They don't want to talk about it. The highest murder rate in the United States in 45 years. We're going to save our Second Amendment, which is totally under siege.And the NRA, which are great people -- National Rifle Association -- gave me the earliest endorsement they've ever given to anybody.They're great people.And we're going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams to another day, but they really mean another decade or many decades away. Hillary has been there for 30 years and she's accomplished nothing but negative results. She's made things worse. She is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future -- we, all together.Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of republicans, democrats, independents and first-time voters. We're going to have a lot of them. We're going to have a lot of first-time voters.Got a lot of great people. Forty-five years; 50-years-old; 67. I'll tell you, I met a first-time voter in Tennessee -- 92-years-old. The most beautiful woman -- 92-years-old; first-time voter. Most incredible person. We have so many. And these are great Americans, they've just never found anybody they really wanted to vote for. Now they have.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people; not the donors, and not the special interests.We're a divided nation, but we are fighting to bring us all together as Americans, like we're -- tonight -- there's love. There's love here. With your vote, we are just 11 days away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life.We will make American wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.God bless you. God bless you, Iowa. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Get out and vote. Thank you, Iowa.What a crowd!Thank you very much. So, I spent a long time this morning on making my shoes so beautiful, so shiny...... and then I walked through more dusty floors than I've ever seen in my life. But that's OK, it was worth it. That is great.So, hey, I'll tell you, we have something so important to talk about. You've got to get those ballots in, right?And I was going to bring my political director up, but we don't have to do that, do we?Now, we have a booth right on premises, you know that, and you can go there and you can do whatever you have to do. If you don't have your ballot, they give you another one and they void your one at home. And then, of course, the other side would send that one in, too, but, you know, we don't do that stuff. We don't do that stuff.You know, because if you listen to President Obama, that never takes place. Except eight years he was saying it did take place, right? He said it took place in Chicago. Of course, he said really good things about Obamacare, too, and that didn't work out, you know? Remember, he said you could keep your doctor, you could keep your plan.Boy, oh, boy, this country, got the greatest country in the world, but we will make America great again, believe me. We're going to do it. We're going to do it.So, go out. You've got to do it. We have a movement like they've never seen. Go out when we're finished, or if you want to leave even earlier that's OK with me, I won't be insulted.But everybody -- who, by the way, has sent in their ballot?That's pretty good. All right, so it's probably 70 percent. We've got to get them in because I have real problems with ballots being sent. Does that make sense?Like, people say, oh, here's a ballot, here's another ballot, throw it away. Oh, here's one I like, we'll keep that one. I have real problems, so get your ballots in. We're trying to have some pretty good supervision out there. We have a lot of people watching you people that collect the ballots. We've got a lot of people watching the people that collect the ballots.Now, the, you know, dishonest media will say, oh, that wasn't nice, everything is so honest. Everything in our country. We have 1.8 million people that are dead, registered to vote, right? And some of them vote, I wonder how that happens. We have 2.7 million people on more than one state, they're registered in two states and sometimes more than that. And I could go on and on and on, but let's assume the best. So, you've got to go and you've got to do that, otherwise our great movement that's never been seen, nothing like this has ever been seen in this country, and even these dishonest people back there will admit that.And you have to go and you have to send those ballots in.And you also have some areas where you can vote in Colorado, but I guess it's mostly ballots, so just do and send them in. And if you want to vote, vote. Whatever the hell you have to do, do it.In 10 days, we are going to win the state of Colorado.And we are going to win back the White House.Early voting is underway, so make sure you get out and vote, meaning what we just said.One of the most important reasons you have to vote is we can immediately, without question, so simply repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.You see what's happening to your premiums? First of all, it's no good, it doesn't work. On top of that, your premiums are going up 60, 70, 80 percent.In the great state of Arizona, their premiums are going up this year 116 percent.Now, they sent out a director from the White House, they were saying 25 percent. You should be so lucky. They say, we'll go up about 25 percent. We haven't found too many of them. It's out of control, it's no good. It's just been announced that the citizens of Colorado are going to be experiencing a crushing double-digit hike.Now, the number is so big that I refuse to tell you what it is because I want you to leave here happy.But when you see what it is next week, you are going to be very, very angry. And remember this Crooked Hillary Clinton wants to double-up and triple-up on Obamacare.You're going to spend more money and you're going to get even less. And with deductibles being where they are, you'll never ever get to use it.On top of that, one in five consumers on Colorado's individual market will have to pay their plans and you're going to have to find out that your plan is going to be canceled, absolutely canceled, null and void in the year 2017. Ninety percent of the counties in Colorado are losing their insurers, no insurers. Doctors are quitting, companies are fleeing and deductibles are going so high that, as I say all the time, it doesn't work, it's no good, you'll never get to use it.Workers' hours are being cut and hiring is being frozen. Obamacare is a catastrophe for -- hey, look, it is a total catastrophe for Colorado, but it's a catastrophe for the United States of America and our businesses.Even Bill Clinton admitted that Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world, he said, where people wind up with their premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half. It's actually worse than that. In Minnesota where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor just said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable.Jonathan Gruber, MIT -- my uncle was up at MIT, I like my uncle much better -- the architect of Obamacare, admitted it was a fraud and he said it was passed because of the stupidity of the American voter.That the only stupidity was that of the officials and, really, the primary stupidity was that the officials allowed that thing to be rammed through over the objection of some politicians, I must admit, but overall the American voter. It was rammed through.Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.Just this year, Clinton called Obamacare,  and this is sort of interesting, one of the greatest accomplishments of President Obama.You know this thing is just dead, right? You know it. One of the great accomplishments of the Democratic Party and an accomplishment of our country.It's one of the great catastrophes. My contract with the American voter outlines a plan to repeal and replace Obamacare and I'm asking for your vote so we can get the job done for Colorado and the families of Colorado.We will have a plan that is so much better and that is so much less expensive. It's going to be beautiful. We'll bring sanity back to health care.Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington.As you have heard, it was just announced yesterday that the FBI is reopening their investigation...... into the criminal and illegal conduct of Hillary Clinton!This is the biggest political scandal since Watergate. And it's everybody's deepest hope that justice at last can be properly delivered.Hillary has nobody to blame but herself for her mounting legal troubles. Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional and purposeful.Hillary set up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding her criminal conduct from public disclosure and exposure. That didn't work.Although it certainly did because 33,000 emails missing, you know, we haven't seen it yet. However, I think some of these 33,000 were captured yesterday.She set up this illegal server knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk and put the safety and security of your children at risk.To further cover up her crimes, she bleached, which nobody does because it's so expensive -- has anybody ever wanted to get rid of an email and bleached it? Has anybody? Anybody? Raise your hand. Has anybody even heard of it, right? She bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after -- after, after, after, right -- receiving a congressional subpoena.So she gets the subpoena, it's a congressional subpoena, and she says we better get rid of this stuff, 33,000 emails. She made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer. She lied to Congress under oath. Lied to the FBI on many occasions. And then recently it was revealed that two boxes of email evidence, in addition to everything else, went mysteriously missing. That was three weeks ago.She even pretended not to know that the letter C meant confidential or even classified, give it one or the other, right? One or the other, it mean confidential, but at least -- she thought it was C meaning, like, paragraph C. The only problem is there wasn't an A or a B or a D.And her memory went bad with the FBI on 39 separate occasions.As the recent release of a memo from one of Bill Clinton's closest associates demonstrates, the Clintons have turned the government into a scheme for personal profit. It's all it is, take a look.Are you looking at this stuff? The Clintons even saw the deadly disaster in Haiti as an opportunity to cash in. The people of Haiti hate the Clintons, I will tell you that, they hate the Clintons, they've been used.The WikiLeaks revelations have revealed a degree of corruption at the highest levels of our government like nothing we have ever seen as a country before, including a candidate who boasts to donors about having a public position for the voters and a private position for Wall Street.Hillary put the office of Secretary of State up for sale. And if she ever got the chance, she would put the Oval Office up for sale so fast your head would spin. Well, she did it with the bedroom, right? The bedroom. That's just a small version, though. That doesn't count.Hillary should have been convicted long ago. She should have been convicted. You know, they're complaining about, oh, it's so terrible, (they're starting up?). Well, they found a lot of emails that were never given. And now it was just revealed there were over 10,000 that they just found. And these, I assume, were never revealed. You're supposed to give your emails.The process and the legal process has been taking a long time. It's very sad that it's taken so long. And now it's reported today this morning that the Department of Justice was fighting the FBI and that's because the Department of Justice is trying so hard to protect Hillary.It was reported that 97 percent of the Department of Justice's employees in terms of their presidential contributions, 97 percent went to Hillary Clinton, which means that they don't like me too much, right? Ninety-seven percent.There are those, and I happen to be one of them, who think Hillary offered Loretta Lynch a reappointment as attorney general. I happen to be one.Perhaps, just perhaps -- of course, he said he only talked about golf and the grandchildren, but he was on the plane for 39 minutes. He went to Arizona, an unbelievable place, but there are those that think that when he went onto the plane that's what they discussed, just prior to a decision being made. He said it was to play golf, but he never played. And I think it was over 109 degrees out.This is what we mean when we call it a rigged system. This is what we mean.It's what we mean. She's under investigation, the plane just happened -- oh, gee, that's great, that's the attorney general's plane, I'm in Arizona playing golf. I went to play golf. It's 109 degrees, I went to play golf in the middle of the summer, right?Oh, that's -- oh, isn't that -- oh, that's the attorney, oh, maybe I'll stop off and say hello. Oh, let me stop.You know, I've had a plane for a long time, I've never had anybody walk off the runway into my plane, ever. I've never had that happen.I don't even think it's legal. I don't even think you're allowed to do it. Anyway, so he's going to play golf. There she -- oh, let's go see her. Oh, come on, 39 minutes. No, we talked about golf, I give that two minutes, and grandchildren, I give that three because they're grandchildren, right? It's more important.What happened the rest of the time? What happened? So I happen to be one that -- now, right after that, she made that decision. And boy, did that cause ripples within the FBI. Boy, oh, boy. Now the attorney general is fighting the FBI because the FBI finally did what was right.But also, something that should have been done a long time ago. Perhaps through this other investigation, and that's the investigation of a person that over the years I've known a little bit and watched, did I call him correctly? Did I? Did anybody see? It's called good judgment, it's called good instincts. If you check out the tweets or if you check out whatever it is I wrote about him, it was so perfect. I said I can't -- and that was done a long time ago.But they found by looking at Anthony Weiner, a major, major, major sleaze, they found what may be some of the 33,000 missing and deleted emails...... isn't that nice, that Hillary tried so desperately to destroy, even going so far as using systems that most people have never heard of. I wonder, is she going to keep Huma? Huma's been a problem. Do we agree? Huma. Huma's been a problem. I wonder if Human is going to stay there. And I hope they haven't given Human immunity, because it seemed that everybody that walked down the sidewalk got immunity. I hope they haven't given Human immunity because she knows the real story, she knows what's going on, she knows what's going on.And the sad thing is, and this is one of the things I said, how can you have all of this incredible, confidential, secret information and have your top person married to this guy? I said that's the way life works. And everyone said one thing has nothing to do with another. Well, it turned out it does. It turned out it does. And this is very serious stuff.You know, General Cartwright, James Cartwright, highly respected, four-star general, last week, this is a four-star general, is going to serve up to five years in prison...... because he lied one time and I think he tried to lie, if you study it, for national security reasons. But he lied one time. He is going, his life has been destroyed, he's going to serve up to five years in jail.General Petraeus, as you know, for doing a tiny fraction of what Hillary Clinton has done, his life has been destroyed.And then people are complaining because they're a little bit surprised that this came up. But honestly, this whole thing should have been over with a year ago. She is so guilty. She is so guilty. She is so guilty. This should have come up a long time ago.But now the evidence, as I would imagine, is so overwhelming because they wouldn't have done this unless it was overwhelming. And despite that, if the reports are correct, despite that, the attorney general didn't want anything to happen to Hillary. I wonder why. It's very sad.Folks, we're living in a third-world country. This has never happened before. This has never happened before. This is the lowest point in terms of our judicial system. This is the lowest point in the history of our country. Remember that.And when I talk about a rigged system, let's see what happens, let's see what happens. On November 8th, we are going to change things. We're going to change.We're going to change things. We have a movement and we're going to show that we have a real movement toward common sense, toward honesty, toward so many things. Toward, honestly, toward taking care of our veterans, toward saving our Second Amendment, toward Supreme Court.November 8th the stakes could not be higher. A vote for Hillary is a vote to surrender our government to public corruption, graft and cronyism that threatens the very foundations of our constitutional system. What makes us exceptional is that we are a nation of laws and that we are an equal, we are equal under those laws.Hillary's corruption shreds that foundational principal. And you've seen it, you've been watching this take place for a long time. But actually, it's been going on for years with the Clintons. You can go back to Whitewater, you can go back to the cattle purchase. I mean, she had a better return on cattle than guys that have done it all their lives? That was another beauty. I mean, this is just the way it is.Public corruption is a grave and profound threat to a democracy. Government corruption spreads outward like a cancer and infects the operations of government itself. If the corruption is not removed, then the people are not able to have faith in their government.Now, when you look at what's happened over the last year with the FBI and with the Department of Justice, nobody in this room has more faith now, you have a lot less faith now, but let's see how it all works out. But what happens and what's been happening has never in the history of our country happened before.And I can tell you, you have amazing people in the Department of Justice and you have amazing people in the FBI. These are great, great people, great men and women, people that love our country. And I want to tell you, I'll bet you, without any knowledge, there was a revolt in the FBI. I'll bet you there was a revolt in the FBI by what they allowed to happen with respect to Hillary Clinton. There was a revolt.And I can be pretty sure of it.It deadens and saps the spirit of civic participation when you see what's gone on. Corruption decays our trust in institutions and our legal system itself. When the outcome is fixed, when the system is rigged, people lose hope, not only in the system, but in our country itself. And you understand that.I've seen people, I've gone around, we have the biggest crowds ever, nobody's ever had anything like this ever.We had a crowd the other night in Florida that was so big. It was in this massive field, like Central Park, it was this massive field. And they had tens of thousands of people, but they had thousands of people outside. And I said let them in. And the fire marshals were great. They said we can't do it, sir. I said, no, no, let them in, they can't have a fire, it's a field.He said, no, sir, we can't do it. I said, why? He said stampede. Think of it, stampede. Stampede! And it's a stampeded of love. It's not like, oh, gee. But if you have 45 or 50,000 people running forward and we have 10 tough guys standing up here they don't have a chance.So, I mean, they used the word "stampede " because the crowds are so big, it's incredible. It's something that nobody has seen before in this country. It is, you know, Bill O'Reilly said it. I will say, Bill O'Reilly and others said it. It's the single-greatest political phenomena, he said, of his life. But many other people have said the same thing.But if our system isn't properly run, it becomes detached and the people become detached. Our society becomes unhinged and unplugged. When the powerful can get away with anything because they have the money and the connections to rig the system, then the laws toward moral authority no longer exist.And I have to tell you, I've been on the other side for a long time. It's not bad over there. It's pretty good. And I understand. I mean, I talk about insider, outsider. Who is more of an insider than me? I understand. But I also understood what was going on and I also understand what was happening to our country and I love this country and our country was going in the wrong direction.We weren't going to have a country any longer.It's great. Hillary believes money and power, not truth and justice, should rule the day. As F.D.R. once said, government by organized money is just as dangerous as government by organized crime. Interesting statement. Interesting statement.We must and we will save America and that is why my contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take our country back from the special interests and the donors.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and hear and I mean big league hear the words of us, not me, it's us. When we win on November 8th...... we are going to Washington, D.C. and we will drain the swamp.I tell people I hated that expression, started a week ago, I didn't like it. I said, oh, that's so corny. I said -- and then I went, I said it, halfheartedly said it, and the place went crazy.You know, Frank Sinatra didn't love "My Way, " and then he sang it and he saw what was happening and then it became the biggest and he ended up loving it like crazy. But that was a very interesting thing, drain the swamp. Very accurate.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We will unleash the full power of American energy, including oil, clean coal, natural gas and shale energy.We're going to put our miners back to work and we're going to put our steelworkers back to work, believe me.Hillary Clinton has said, by the time we get through all of my conditions, I do think there will be many places in America where fracking will continue to take place, OK?So we'll pay, you know what we'll do, we'll pay five times more for our energy, is that OK?That's what's going to happen. She's also pledged to put the miners out of work. You saw that. That was sort of -- that was fun.She's going to put the miners out of work and then she goes to see if she can do well in West Virginia. By the way, she didn't do too well. You saw what happened with West Virginia, great people.And I went to some of the miners. You know, I won, and you talk about massive landslides, that was a big landslide, but I won West Virginia. I went to West Virginia and I talked to the miners and I said, would you ever think of, like, going into a different area, like, moving to another location and doing something else? And one of them actually had tears coming down his eyes. They love mining, that's what they want to do. They're fathers, they're grandfathers, they're great grandfathers. That's what they want to do, they love it, they're great at it, that's what they know, that's what they love.She wants to put them out of business. We're putting them back into business. We're going to have clean coal -- clean coal.And by the way, it's a virtually unlimited resource in terms of civil defense. In terms of our defense, it's virtually unlimited. You know, everything else has, like, a life, it's good for 25 years. And I want all forms of energy, including modern, technological energy. Windmills are great, but a lot of times the wind doesn't blow, folks. And a lot of times it's killing your eagles and your birds and, you know, things.And I'm all for it, I'm all for solar. I did some solar. They said, Mr. Trump, you have a 28-year payback, isn't that wonderful? I said, 28 years? That's terrible. What they don't say is by the time the 10th year comes you have to put new panels in because they're all rotted out with the weather right? You know, I'm a builder, that's what I do. They say in 28 years you get your money back. I said, what about the fact that I have to replace them four times before I get to 28 years? What happens if I'm not around in 28 years? That could happen.We will become a rich nation once again.But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country.Hillary wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees.And that's above -- you have plenty of people moving here that you don't even know about. You don't even know, your government is not telling you. But that's above 550 percent, Syrian refugees, that's above the thousands and thousands of people already moving here from Syria. And we don't even know where they're from. We know nothing about them. We don't know. Are they ISIS? Are they not ISIS?And we all want to protect them. And we'll build safe havens. We'll get the money -- by the way, we owe $20 trillion in case you haven't heard -- we'll get the money from the Gulf states. They've got plenty of money. They need us very badly, folks, they need us very badly. They'll put up the money. We'll build safe zones, but we can't have them come here.You look at all of the problems, you look at Germany, you look at so many different, look at France. I have people, friends that love going to Paris. They don't go to Paris anymore. They say Paris is no longer Paris.So, she wants 550 percent above the thousands that are pouring in right now under the Obama plan.Not going to happen. The Hillary refugee plan would leave us with generations of terrorism, radicalism and extremism inside of our shores. I don't think the people in Colorado are into radicalism. I don't think. I know too many people, they're not into the world of radicalism, OK? Oh, I have so many friends here, some of them are in the audience, some are very successful.Some have lost their shirt because of regulation. They've lost their shirts because of regulation.So let me state this as clearly as I can. When I'm elected president, I am going to keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country!A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.And, yes, we will build a wall and, yes, Mexico will pay for the wall a hundred percent, hundred percent. By the way, 100 percent.Oh, I wish these very dishonest people would spin those cameras to show the crowd and the enthusiasm. They never do.You know what they see? You go home, you know what you see? My face the whole time. Even I don't want to watch it. And you know what they don't realize? If they did that it's better television. They don't understand that. Boy, are they going to die in the ratings after this election's over, man.Are they going to die, are they going to die when they call and I say no, thank you, no interest. Boy, oh, boy, oh, boy.And they're not watching Hillary, I'll tell you that. Hillary has pledged open borders and supports sanctuary cities...... like the sanctuary city where the killer of Kate Steinle came out of.Under my contract -- and she was an incredible young women -- under my contract with the American voter, we are going to cancel all federal funding for sanctuary cities.We will end illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens...... and save American lives. Tremendous problem.We also need a new foreign policy that puts America First, folks. America First, not other countries first.Not other countries. Hillary's policies have caused disaster in Iraq, Syria, Libya and unleashed ISIS. Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East and now it's in worse shape than ever before. Think of it. We have spent so far in the Middle East $6 trillion. We could have rebuilt our country twice, more than twice if you had people that knew what they were doing. We could have rebuilt our country twice.Our failed establishment has dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe, they've left our borders wide open at home and they've shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.We go into wars that we don't win. We're constantly going from here to there to there to there. How about me? I've been attacked because I was so tough on Mosul. When I heard four months ago they were going into Mosul, I said, why are you talking about it? Why are you talking? Why do you say you're going into Mosul? Well, we're going in to get the leaders of ISIS. But don't you understand, these are smart people and tough people, don't you understand when you say you're going in to get the leaders they're gone, but they leave plenty of people behind that are good fighters. And it's a tough fight.Whatever happened to the element of surprise? Remember when we were young we studied General MacArthur, General George Patton, these were tough people, smart people, smart people. You know, General Douglas MacArthur, I think to this day, used to be when I was in school, but to this day had the highest grades ever in the history of West Point. That's great, I think that's great. I'm a person who believes in, you know, that kind of stuff. Maybe I'm wrong; it's sort of pretty impressive. But General Douglas MacArthur was a great general.General Patton was a rough guy. His people would do anything for him, they'd die for him. Today he couldn't make it because he's too tough. Today we have guys that are politically correct. We have politically correct people.We notify -- when I said take the oil, you know what they do? They send leaflets, we are going to be bombing the area in seven hours, please leave the area. These people are crazy. But they've been -- I've taken some heat because I said don't tell Mosul, don't say, you go in and you do the job and talk about it a week later and by that time you'll have the people. They said, Donald Trump, what does he know about warfare?What do I know? Oh, forget it. Hopefully, hopefully, you know, we're going to rebuild our military. We're going to rebuild because it's depleted.But it's called peace through strength. I hope -- now, we're going to have to get rid of ISIS. We agree, we have to get rid of ISIS. But I hope we're not going to have to use our military. Peace through strength.We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, and it's even a little bit larger.And Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes.We're the highest taxed nation in the world and she is going to raise taxes. As Podesta said, she's got bad instincts. Well, she's got bad instincts when the emails are on Anthony Weiner's wherever.Oh, he's bad.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. It's killing our businesses. We're going to get rid of a lot of them.We're going to stop the jobs from leaving Colorado and going to other countries, like Mexico. It's a one-way street.They get the money, they get the jobs, they get the plants, they get the factories. We get nothing. We get unemployment.We're going to cancel every illegal Obama executive order.And by the way, this young person just mentioned the wall, loves the wall. But we're going to have a big, beautiful door in that wall, meaning we're going to have lots of doors in that wall. And we're going to have people come into our country. We want people to come into our country. But they're going to come into our country legally. They're going to come in legally. We want that.They're going to come in legally. Thank you for reminding me, but you're right. Thank you, ma 'am. Thank you.Provide school choice and put an end to Common Core which is a disaster. We're bringing education, we're bringing education local.We're going to rebuild our very depleted military. We have the greatest people on earth. But our military -- you know, we have jet fighters that are so old, currently operational, that are so old we can't even get parts for them anymore. We have to get them from airplane graveyards. That's what we have.And we are going to take care of our vets like our vets have never been taken care of before, believe me.We're going to reduce surging crime and support the great men and women of law enforcement.And I don't know if you know, you never hear from these very dishonest people in the media, but the murder rate -- murder -- in the United States is the highest it's been in 45 years. They don't tell you these things. They don't tell you about the fact that good jobs are not available. They've left. They don't tell you about we don't make product anymore, relatively speaking. They don't tell you about that. Highest murder rate in the United States in 45 years.We're going to save the Second Amendment.We've got a full endorsement by the National Rifle Association, the earliest they've ever given an endorsement. They're great people, too. They love this country.We are going to protect and conserve Colorado land for hunters, anglers, farmers and ranchers.And we are going to appoint justices to the Supreme Court of the United States who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams for another day, but they really don't talk in terms of days, they talk in terms of decades. Hillary has been there for 30 years and she's accomplished nothing, only negative. She's made things worse.I see during the debates -- did I win the debates, OK?Did I win the debates? But I see during the debates -- and boy, was she tired after those last two debates. Not a lot of energy, doesn't have a lot of energy. She was tired, she wanted to go home and go to sleep.But I was watching during the debate, first debate, it came to me, she said we are going to do this, we are going to do that, we're going to -- I said, you know, she's been there for 30 years, she never did it. They want to do something with the tax code, that's fine with me. Hey, whatever you want to do. That's great. I mean, I understand the tax code very well, but so do other smart -- I built an incredible business -- so do other people that understand business. Her donors did the same thing as I do.I said, Hillary, why don't you change the code? That's OK, I don't mind. Change the tax code. So she complains and complains like a critic, you know? I've never liked critics. They always complain, complain, complain, but they can't do anything themselves, right?She doesn't even know they are being badly served. Remember, she made the statement a few months ago that the vets are being well-served. Then she immediately took it back when she got probably 10 million letters. It is such a disaster.She is a candidate of yesterday, we are the movement altogether of the future.Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and from all walks of life. We're a divided country right now; we're not going to be divided for long. We're going to be a loving country. We're going to be like this room and the arenas and every place else. There's love. There's love. And there's no better place to be than a Trump rally, is that right?No better place.We're asking for the voters and we're asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, independents and first-time voters. And by the way, we have a lot of them. You see what's going on in Florida? They have lines. They've never had lines in Florida, they'd have two people in a room and they'd vote and leave. They have lines that are four blocks long, all over the state of Florida.We're winning Florida. I think we're winning Colorado if it's a straight-up system.I mean, get those ballots in. I don't love the concept of ballots. I don't love it. Get those ballots in and follow your ballot. You can follow your ballot. Make sure that ballot is registered, make sure that ballot is counted, OK? You know, we're dealing with a bunch of babies. Well, nothing happens under our -- this is the foundations of our country. Well, so is the Justice Department and so are all these other things that are happening so badly, so follow your ballot. And if you do, I really think we're going to win Colorado and maybe win it big.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests. We are a divided nation, but we are fighting to bring us all together as Americans. With your vote, we are just 10 days away. Can you believe it?I've been doing this for a year-and-a-half. Oh, boy. Oh, boy. I've had people call me wrong. They've been calling me wrong for so long. They're not calling me wrong, they're calling us wrong. I watch these characters on television. They don't have a clue. Some of these guys, I watch them and they don't -- they've been calling it wrong for so long, and now they're devastated. You know, they're just, like exhausted. They don't know that we're going to have a very big victory. This is going to be big, this is going to be beyond Brexit. I call it beyond Brexit.We're going to beat Crooked Hillary bad.Thank you. Thank you. By the way, do you believe after this I go to two other beautiful parts of the country and I do this again and again and again. And then I go and I rest for three hours. And then I get up at 6 in the morning and I do it again and again and again.But you know what? The end result is going to be a big, beautiful victory.Big, beautiful victory.And Hillary stays home. And then I take an hour to cut a ribbon. I want to see the job my kids did building a hotel on Pennsylvania Avenue, between the White House. So I take an hour. Now, she sleeps most of the time, she does very little, a tiny fraction what I do. And she said, Donald Trump went off the campaign trail to open a hotel. Oh.And by the way, an hour after that I was in North Carolina doing this.And she was home. You know where she was? She was home sleeping.Oh, folks, they don't get it. We're just 10 days away from the change you've all been waiting for for your entire life.Together we are going to make America wealthy again. We are going to make America strong again. We are going to make America safe again. And we will make America great again!Thank you, God bless you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Get those ballots in. Get those ballots in. God bless you, thank you.Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you very much. Boy, it's a lot of people.So, this was the scene of my first major speech right after I announced that I was running for president.And it was a tremendous scene. I think we're beating it today. We have 15,000 -- we have more than 15,000, and we have a lot of people pouring in.Should we wait for them? Should we wait?No, we're not waiting.The silent majority is back.In 10 days, we are going to win the state of Arizona...... and we are going to win back the White House...We are -- we are.A Trump administration would immediately repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.It's just been announced that the citizens of Arizona are going to experience -- congratulations -- a 116 percent increase...... in their Obamacare premiums. Don't feel bad. You won't be the highest in the country. Is that amazing -- 116, and it doesn't work. Elect me and we will stop the premium hikes for good. We will stop the madness of Obamacare. It will be repealed and replaced, believe me.I'd love to have those cameras turn over here and just show those people.They don't understand -- they don't understand. It would be so good for their television ratings. They don't understand it. They keep it right here on this very nice, but small group of people behind me.They don't have great seats. They don't have great seats, but tomorrow they'll be famous, OK?Oh, I wish the cameras would turn these cameras. The people don't have any idea what's going on, do they? They know.But they know. They are the most dishonest, corrupt people. They are the most dishonest people -- they are the most dishonest people. The only time they turn is when they have a protester, and now we learned that through WikiLeaks that Hillary Clinton was paying the protesters $1,500 each to be violent at our rallies.We just learned that last week -- WikiLeaks.Every single one of Arizona's 15 counties is losing insurers next year because of Obamacare. In Phoenix, there are eight Obamacare insurers, OK? Gone, gone. Good luck. By the way, have a lot of fun negotiating. There's nobody to negotiate with.Next year, you'll have one -- one group to negotiate with. I'd like to be that one group. That one group is going to do very well, but you're not going to do very well, but you're going to do very well if I get elected, because we're getting rid of Obamacare. We're going to have an alternative that's cheaper, cheaper and better, better.It was announced this week that Obamacare premiums in Phoenix will go up 100 -- congratulations -- 145 percent...... 145 percent. You know, the worst part, it's no good, it's no good. It's not like it's great, it's no good. One insurer in the state will have a $14,000 deductible. In other words, you've got to use $14,000 worth of care before they start giving you anything. Sounds like a good idea? No.Folks, we're going to have so many options. We're going to have so many great plans. We're going to have plans that you don't even know what -- there's going to be so much competition. We're going to get rid of the borders. We're going to go get rid of the lines -- the artificial lines that are put there to make the insurance companies rich, so they have no competition. You're going to have so much competition for your business, and you're going to have great health care, and it's going to be at a tiny fraction of what you're paying right now, so just remember.Obamacare is a -- is that correct? Obamacare is a catastrophe for Arizona, and it's a catastrophe for the United States of America, and we're going to get rid of it. Even Bill Clinton admitted Obamacare is the craziest thing in the world where people wind up with premiums doubled and their coverage cut in half -- he's right, but it's actually much worse than that. In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor, who is a real party stalwart, said, "The Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable." That's in -- that's in Minnesota, a state which we could actually win. We can win Minnesota.And by the way, we are winning Arizona big. You have seen the recent polls.And I want to thank Governor Brewer for being here. Where is she? She's around here someplace.And what a job that young, beautiful woman -- what a job you did.And folks -- folks, he's a good man. He was one of the first endorsers of Donald Trump. Vote for Sheriff Joe.Stand up. Stand up, Joe.They don't love tough people in this country anymore that know how to do their job -- and fair people. He's tough, he's fair, and I hope he gets reelected, and he should. Go out and make sure he gets reelected, everybody.There are some bad undercurrents out there, folks. Jonathan Gruber, the architect of Obamacare, remember from MIT?My uncle John was a great professor at MIT for a long time. Unfortunately, I liked him a lot better than Jonathan Gruber. But Jonathan Gruber admitted it was all a fraud, and he said, outrageously, that it was passed because the stupidity of the American voter is unbelievable.We're going to show him, on November 8th...... that the November -- November 8th.We're going to show him on November 8th. The American voter has had it, they've had it.Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, make it even more expensive, in fact, much more expensive than it is right now.You know, when people ask me about the crowds, they never show the crowds, but they say, you know it sounds like an Ohio State football game, actually.Sure sounds big. You can actually tell a crowd by the sound. You can't imitate that sound. You know, when Hillary Clinton got up, I watched her today.And she had very few people. And she walked onto the stage -- now I always do this, and today I didn't -- because I walk -- usually, I'm always surprised by how many people. Look at them. Look, it goes all the way into the corners, look at that, this incredible room, all the way into the corners.But when she came on today, she looked at a small group of people. She goes, wow, wow, wow. That's what I do, she's copied me, and I don't do it anymore because she's copied me.I'm always like surprised, wow. And she went wow, and there were very few people.My contract with the American voter outlines a plan to repeal and replace Obamacare, and I'm asking for your vote so we can save health care for every family in Arizona.Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington, D.C.Drain that swamp. As you've heard, it was just announced yesterday, that the FBI is re-opening their investigation...... into the criminal conduct and the illegal conduct of Hillary Clinton. This is the biggest political scandal since Watergate, and it's everybody's deepest hope that justice at last will be beautifully delivered.Hillary has nobody but herself to blame for her mounting legal difficulties. Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional, and purposeful. Hillary set up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding a criminal conduct from public disclosure and exposure. She set up this illegal server knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk, and put the safety and security of your children and your families at risk.But she didn't care. As long as she and Bill got the money, the safety of your family made absolutely no difference to her.To cover up her crimes, she bleached something that even sophisticated people know nothing about -- partially because it's so expensive. She bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after -- after, after, after, after receiving a congressional subpoena, made 13 phones disappear -- some with a hammer -- lied to Congress under oath many times, lied to the FBI many times, and then, recently, two boxes of email evidence went mysteriously missing.She put it up to sell for the special interests and the foreign dictators, whoever offers the right price, and usually that's the highest price. Yet, now it's reported that the Department of Justice is fighting with the FBI. That's because the Department of Justice is trying their hardest to protect the criminal activity of Hillary Clinton.What has our country come to? Ninety-seven percent of the Department of Justice employees, all of their presidential contributions, just about 97 percent, went to Hillary Clinton. I don't think they like me.There are those -- and I happen to be one of them -- you think Hillary offered Loretta Lynch, the attorney general, a re-appointment as attorney general if Hillary were to become president.We don't want that to happen. A lot of people feel that way, right, right? Perhaps that was what Bill Clinton was arranging when he met with Attorney General Lynch on her airplane, on the tarmac, on a very, very warm day, right here in Arizona.The meeting lasted 39 minutes, and it was just a coincidence. You know, he was here to play golf. I hate to tell you it was about 109 degrees that day.We all love Arizona, but I have so many friends, I'm here some much. When it gets to a certain temperature, we just sort of say, let's stay inside today. It's 109, it was a very hot day -- it's a very hot day. But he just happened to see her. Did you see that? There's the attorney general's plane riding down the runway.I'm out playing golf let's -- there's the attorney general. Hey, let me hop, but I've had a plane for a long time. Never once has anybody entered my plane by saying, hey, can I come onto plane, from the tarmac, while the plane is moving along?So they spent 39 minutes talking about golf and their grandchildren. So I give golf two minutes, I give the grandchildren three or four minutes. And the rest of the time, perhaps, was discussing the fact that the attorney general was going to make a decision, right after that, about Hillary Clinton.So what's happened to the Justice Department? What's happened -- what's happened?This is what I mean when I say that our system is rigged. Our system is rigged, folks. And be careful with your votes and watch your votes. A vote for Hillary is a vote to surrender our government to public corruption, graft, cronyism that threatens the survival of our constitution itself.What makes us exceptional is that we are a nation of laws and that we are all equal under those laws. Hillary's corruption shreds the principle of which our nation was founded. So sad. Government corruption spreads outward, like a cancer, infecting the whole operation of our government.And I -- I have to tell you, I respect the fact that Director Comey was able to come back after what he did.I respect that very much. And when the other side is complaining and complaining and complaining, there was no -- there was reason for it, because all of the crimes that were committed, something should have happened then, not now. And just to break it down, there are many, but when you delete 33,000 emails after getting a subpoena, that's it, it's over -- it's over -- it's over. And I will tell you, without knowing anything, the only reason...The only reason -- the only reason that they did this action that you saw yesterday was very, very serious things must be happening and must have been found, very, very serious things, very, very serious things.And you can also ask when they complain on the other side, why wasn't this evidence given previously? Why wasn't it given previously? And when you talk about instincts, I don't know if anybody saw my comments on Anthony Weiner.It's called instinct, folks. I had no idea it was going to be that accurate. Boy, that was right on the nose. When the outcome is fixed, when the system is rigged, people lose hope, they stop dreaming, they stop trying. When the powerful can get away with anything, because they have the money and the connections to rig the system, then people lose confidence in our loss, and confidence in their futures. Hillary Clinton's corruption is corrosive to the soul of our nation, and it must be stopped -- it must be stopped.And one of the reasons I've been saying that the system is so corrupt and is so rigged, is not only what happens at the voters booth -- and you know things happen, folks. I watched Obama the other day saying, but this is a foundation of the system. How can he say it? And yet, eight years ago he's on a clip talking about Chicago and essentially how the voting is rigged in Chicago. You know, give me a break. Take a look at it, eight years ago. It's all over the place.But one of the reasons I say it's rigged is because Hillary Clinton -- nothing to do with what was found recently -- Hillary Clinton should never, ever, based on everything that took place, be allowed to run for the presidency of the United States. She shouldn't be allowed.She should have been disqualified a long time ago. And when you read the nasty WikiLeaks, the horrible things said about Catholics, and the horrible things said about evangelicals, and the horrible things said about Bernie Sanders -- what they said about Bernie Sanders, I mean, say what you want, what they said about Bernie Sanders is rather incredible. And then they have their super delegates, and they had all the people stacked against him. He never had a chance, folks.And you know what? The worst thing he did was backing her, because you would have gone down as a great figure in political history in this country, but once he did that he sold his soul to the devil.But we'll take the Bernie Sanders voters because my trade policies are much tougher and much stronger and much better than his, and we're going to have a lot of trade, but it's going to be a two-way highway, not a one-way road out, believe me.As FDR once said, "Government by organized money is just as dangerous as government by organized mob." It's true, so true. Hillary believes money and power, not truth and justice, should rule the day. We have one ultimate check on Hillary's corruption, and that is the power of voting, November 8th.So the only way we're going to beat the corruption is to show up and vote by the tens of millions, including millions of people voting for the first time in their entire lives.Vote with all your heart and soul, because we are going to make America great again, OK? Just remember that, we are.Restoring honesty to our government and the rule of law to our society will be a very, very high priority of my presidency.Haven't we had enough drama with the Clintons?Bill Clinton was impeached for lying and obstructing justice, signed the worst trade deal in history, NAFTA, which emptied our country of its manufacturing jobs, and he doesn't even have the right anymore because of what he did to practice law.Hillary has brought scandal or destroyed virtually everything she has touched. Look at Whitewater, look at the cattle futures, look at jobs in upstate New York, a disaster, or look at Syria, Iraq, Libya. And now look at the mess she is in with these emails, and that will last for years. You think that's going away?That will be there for years, and she'll be fighting it. This will be the year the American people say, enough is enough.This will be the year the American people break with the bitter failures of the past and embrace a new and really optimistic future. We have such potential.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we -- we -- we -- not me -- we are about to say.When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C., and we are going to drain the swamp.You know, when I first heard that term, I hated it, I said, that's so hokey.That is so hokey. But I said, look, let's give it a shot. I tried it, the place went crazy. Then I said, maybe we'll try it again. The place went crazy, and now I like it.You know, great, great singers, a lot of great artists, great singers, Frank Sinatra. So Frank Sinatra didn't like My Way when he first sang it. And then he noticed the audience liked it a lot, and then it went out, became number one like big. And all of a sudden he started to love that song My Way, right? So drain the swamp.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs that have been stolen from us.Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. America has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill and Hillary's NAFTA -- one-third.America has lost -- listen to this because it's not even a number -- honestly, I thought it was a typo. I thought it was 700 factories or 7,000. America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization.And I am very close to China. I have done great deals with China, their tenants in buildings of mine in New York. China is wonderful. I'm not angry at China, I'm angry at our people for allowing them to get away with this.I have the biggest bank in the world -- the Chinese bank -- far bigger than any other bank, a tenant of mine. I sell them condos. I own building -- a building in San Francisco, a big building in New York because of China. China is wonderful, but they're getting away with murder. Mexico is getting away with murder. Their people, they're smarter than our leaders, their leaders are smarter. They're more cunning, they're more street wise. Something is different. But we're going to stop. Don't worry, we're building the wall, don't worry.We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, that's what's happened. This is the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. There has never been NAFTA, one-way street out, one-way street out. And I always say, they get the jobs, they get the factories and plants, right? They get the money. We get -- what do we get? We get the drugs, we get the unemployment. We get the drugs, the unemployment.Hillary's goal is to send millions and millions more jobs out of our country because that's what her special interests want. I'll have over $100 million invested in the campaign. My money, OK? If I don't pull this off, I'm going to feel very foolish.But you know what? It's money I don't take from special interests, and lobbyists and donors. And we've had tremendous success with the small donors, $61 a head. No -- no Republican has ever come close. We've raised millions and millions of dollars in campaign contributions from small donors, people to put up $61. And no Republican has ever done that, very few people have ever done it, but it's been beautiful to watch.They just -- they love our country. I love our country. That's why I'm doing it. And again, remember -- remember, I had a good time on the other side. You know, when you talk about inside or outside, I was on the other side for a long time. I did very well on the other side. But I also loved our country, and I see what was happening, and we were going in such a wrong direction. We weren't going to have a country anymore. Between an Iran deal, where we give them back $150 billion, how about we give them $1.7 billion in cash?Remember, we thought it was $400 million, right? Remember it was $400 million? You know what that is? At this stage -- no, much bigger -- triple it, going up to the ceiling. That's what cash is -- $400 million. And we were wrong. It was not $400 million, it was $1.7 billion in cash -- airplane loads.And then Obama said it had nothing to do with the hostages, but it did. The hostages wouldn't be released until this cash came -- $1.7 billion, and they wouldn't release the hostages until they got the cash. And then they humiliated us. See, everybody forgets. I never forget, never forget. Then they humiliated us with the 10 sellers, right? And they would have kept them forever, not if I'm president. But they would have kept them forever except that the cash -- the $150 billion -- was to be paid two days from the time of their capture.So instead of saying, hey, folks, you were delivered the wrong order like could you move over here, right? You know, hey, get out of here. They captured them, brought them to their knees, humiliated those 10 people, for the rest of their lives they humiliated, and humiliated the United States of America -- after they made one of the great deals ever. And then they ride around and they, you know, do things around our boats, they circle us. They wouldn't be doing that.And they take their fighter jets and ride very, very close. They do all sorts of things. No, no, it's -- you know, it's amazing. We gave them everything, and now, instead of thanking us, they feel emboldened -- they feel emboldened. So you watch, we're going to be very, very careful -- we have to be very careful. You know, signing nuclear deals is a good thing, not a bad thing, but Kerry never walked, they won every single point. They got everything. This is worse than if we had no deal. The worst deals are the kind that are worse if you had no deal.So with all of the things, with all of the stupidity that I see, how about with a capture, they're going to deport 800 people, and these are tough ones. These are tough people, and they made a little mistake, so they're going to deport them. You know what I'm talking about. They became -- sorry, United States citizens. Welcome aboard.So the 800 people...It's like the money. Instead of $400 million, it was 1.7. It's always worse, it's never better. So the 800 people, instead of being deported, they pressed the wrong button. You know what the wrong button is? This -- the wrong button is somebody got cash, that's what I think, OK. Now, of course, how would I know a thing like that? They'll criticize me. They'll say that is a terrible thing.Just like they said, how can Donald Trump complain about voter fraud? There's no voter fraud that goes on. Really?Watch -- watch, be careful, watch. So the 800 people, instead of being deported, what happened? Congratulations, they are now citizens of the United States. These are rough sentences.But we made a mistake there, too. Instead of 800 people, it turned out to be 1,800. Our country doesn't win anymore. We don't win with ISIS. We don't win with trade. We don't win with borders. We're going to start winning again, folks.If you elect me -- I'm doing this for you, believe me. Hillary is going to raise taxes up to 45 percent, massively expand regulation, shut down American energy, which is a disaster, and push through terrible trade deals that offshore our jobs to the benefit of her donors and special interest. Her policies, in my opinion, will cause major, major recession and maybe even depression. A Trump administration will stop Transpacific Partnership -- a horror story.Really bad deal, that's a really bad deal. We're going to renegotiate NAFTA, and we're not going to stand up. I'll tell you what. Again, China, we're going to have a good relationship with -- I have a great relationship with China. But we are going to stand up to China on its massive currency manipulation, because they are beating our companies because of currency manipulation.We're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We're going to cut taxes for middle-class families by hundreds of billions of dollars. My infrastructure plan will provide help for projects like the proposed Interstate 11. You know what that is? Which would connect Phoenix with Las Vegas and other areas. Everybody wants it.It's time we have some -- something new. You ever notice we don't build bridges anymore, we don't build tunnels anymore. You go to China, they have bridges all over the place, tunnels. We don't build anymore, and we don't make anything anymore, relatively speaking. Everything comes in from lots of different countries.We will also unleash the full power of American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal.We'll put our miners back to work, folks -- we're going to put our miners back to work.We will become a rich nation once again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. A Trump administration will secure and defend the borders of the United States, and yes, we will build a wall.I'm very proud to say that we have the endorsement of America's ICE -- ICE -- you know what ICE -- these are tough, strong, good people. And also, 16,500 -- all of them -- the Border Patrol officers...... the first time they have ever made an endorsement for a president of the United States -- first time they have ever done it.When Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State, she allowed thousands of the most dangerous criminal aliens in the world to go free inside America because their home countries wouldn't take them back, so we would catch these killers, these drug lords, these gang members. We'd bring them back to their country and very intelligently, their country would say, we don't want them. We don't want them. We're not taking them back. So they called the secretary of State, she'd say, they don't want them back? Bring them back. And that's why we have a lot of problems.We take them back and we have people begging us not to take them back. And I guarantee you, as president, there won't be one instance -- not one instance where we take them. Not one.These were people guilty of murder, assault, rape, and all manner of violent crime. Countless Americans are killed by illegal immigrants because our government won't do its job. These include amazing Americans, and you saw that incredible friend of mine -- who just spoke incredibly, by the way. The pain that so many people are going through, Remembrance Project, incredible people.Americans like Sergeant Brandon Mendoza of Mesa -- Mesa, Arizona, who was killed by an illegal immigrant with a criminal record a mile- long who should have been deported. Everybody wanted him deported. People begged that he'd be deported, but the government under Obama refused to act.I've spent time with his unbelievable mother, and they're devastated. Your life can never be the same.Twenty-eight-year-old Park Ranger Kris Eggle was shot and killed by a drug cartel hit squad responsible for a number of murders all over Mexico. Kris died trying to protect our borders from drug and weapon trafficking into the Organ Pipe Cactus National Monument. They were all over the place, and he died -- died -- violently died.Twenty-one-year-old Grant Ronnebeck -- whose father is here some place. Where is his father? You are fantastic.You are fantastic.Grant was working at a convenience store in Mesa, Arizona when he was shot point-blank by an illegal immigrant. His illegal immigrant killer, despite a tremendously horrible criminal record, was out on -- and right now was out on bond and roams free.When I become president -- you can count on this -- when I become president, this crime wave, this needless, senseless crime wave will end, and it will end immediately.We are going to cancel all federal funding for sanctuary cities.We are going to impose tough prison sentences for illegal immigrants who returned after a previous deportation. In other words, we get them out, they come right back. We get them out -- look at Kate Steinle, San Francisco. He came back five times. So we get them out, they come back. We say, listen, do it again, you're going five years. Do it again, after that, you're going 10 years. They know what's going to happen? They're not coming back anymore, folks. Not complicated.We will end illegal immigration, deport every last criminal alien, and save American lives, and we'll do it quickly.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and re- build our badly depleted military.We have tremendous military support, unbelievable military support, and having, as you know, General Flynn here, and having so many generals at our side -- in fact, we have -- where is General Flynn? He's around here someplace. Incredible guy.General Kellogg. We have such incredible people. We have, in fact, the endorsement of over 200 admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients.Our Air Force is the smallest and oldest it has ever been, and my plan builds a modern, advanced fighter aircraft we need, fighters like those that will be stationed at Luke Air Force Base -- Luke.You ever see our fighters are so old that they don't even make parts for them anymore? You've seen that. You've seen the documentaries. They're all over the place. They have to go to plane graveyards and to museums, old airplane museums to get parts. This is what our great people are flying in. Our Army is the smallest -- that's right, but we give beautiful new stuff to people we hardly even know. That's right. We're really run by a bunch of geniuses.Our Army is the smallest it's ever been since World War II, and we will significantly increase both the size of our Army and the emphasis we place on intelligence. You know, you see what's going on, and I'm all for our -- I want everything to be done properly. But you see in Mosul, I've been reading about Mosul for four months -- for four months, I'm reading about Mosul. We're going to be attacking Mosul in four months, we're going to be attacking it in three months, and we're going to take the leaders of ISIL -- did I say ISIL? ISIS -- ISIS. I don't like saying ISIL. We're going to take -- I don't like saying ISIL. We're going to take the leaders of ISIS, and we're going to get them, we're going to capture it.OK? No, no, no.But you can't capture them because they know you're going in, right? So how do you capture them? Because about two minutes after they hear you're going into Mosul, they are -- they're gone.Whatever happened to the element of surprise, folks? And now as you know, you know, Mosul is tough. Those leaders are gone, they're someplace else. You go in, you do the job, you have the press conference a week later, not four months before.I wonder what the great General Douglas MacArthur, I wonder what the great generals of our country in the past -- our past generals would think when they see what's going on, when they see ISIS using human shields, killing people. It's like medieval times, but you don't talk, you get it done. We don't want to talk, you get it done.We're going in -- here's Obama. We're going in four months to Mosul. I don't want to hear it, so please. We're going in three months. Two months, we're preparing. One month, that's right, he said red line -- we're drawing a red line. What a group.We have a president who is essentially incompetent, I'm telling you, incompetent.And why is he always campaigning with Hillary Clinton? Why isn't he working on jobs? Why isn't he working for the Vets or straightening out that because the Veterans Administration is a shame and a disaster. Why isn't he doing these other things? So he is always campaigning for Hillary. Hey, here is my question. Under the circumstances with what the FBI just announced, will he continue to campaign? I don't know.I don't know. I don't know if they're going to be able to do that. But we want to support the men and women at Fort Huachuca, right? You know what the fort is? Huachuca. Home of the Army's Intelligence Center. Places like Marine Corps Air Station Yuma will have new aircraft. They won't have to get spare parts from those museums anymore. We also need a new policy that puts America First. We don't put America First, folks. It's almost like we have leaders that say, you know, when negotiating with countries, we want to make sure they come out well. Us, don't worry about us, but they're doing it for a reason, they're doing it because people take care of them very well.Hillary's policies unleashed ISIS, and powered Iran, and spread death and destruction across the Middle East. Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent six trillion dollars on wars in the Middle East, and now it's in worse shape than it was before we started. I mean, the Middle East is in far worse shape now.Our failed establishment has betrayed the American worker and the American family. They have dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe, and they have left our borders wide open at home, and they have shipped our jobs and our wealth away to other countries, which we're stopping immediately.When we lose our companies out of Arizona and so many other states, essentially all states, they move to Mexico. Take the example of Carrier Air-conditioning. Indianapolis, Indiana, great place. By the way, how good is Mike Pence? Is Mike Pence doing great? Great.Governor of Indiana. What a great job he has done. What a great job Mike has done. That was a good choice. See? That's good instincts, that's good judgment.Bernie Sanders said Hillary has bad judgment. And Podesta -- you know, I don't know this guy Podesta. Whoever the hell he is, I would fire him so fast. He says nothing -- no, no. He says nothing but bad things about Crooked Hillary. That's all he says. The guy says nothing but bad things -- he says nothing but bad.He has a memo, she has bad instincts. How would you -- if somebody said that about me, even if it were true, I'd fire him -- I'd fire him.Unbelievable. No, really, the way he talks, and the way other people talk about her -- I mean, this WikiLeaks is fascinating. But they say so many bad things, but let's leave her alone. She's home now sleeping. Let's let her sleep.To all Americans, I say it is now time for powerful leadership. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of our presidency.We're going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan -- actually a little bit bigger -- and Hillary wants to raise your taxes substantially. She wants to raise your taxes, which is pretty hard to believe considering we're the highest taxed nation in the world. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation. We'll cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We're going to stop the massive inflow of refugees and keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.We're going to rebuild our depleted military and take care of our great, great veterans. We're going to take care of them once and for all. We're going to take care of them.We will reduce surging crime and support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.And I don't know, you know, this dishonest media, the world's most dishonest people.Terrible people. You can have a 100 percent homerun and they'll make it look bad. They've make it look bad. They're bad people.But I'll tell you, they don't tell you this. So the murder rate in the United States -- the murder rate in the United States, it's the worst, the highest it's been in 45 years. Nobody talks about that -- nobody talks about that.We're going to provide school choice and put an end to common core. We're going to bring our education home.I was endorsed by the National Rifle Association, the NRA -- great people. We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege...... and appoint justices of the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams to another day, but they really mean another decade. That's what they mean, they don't mean another day. They mean decades and decades away. Hillary has been there for 30 years, and she has accomplished nothing -- just made things worse.She's the candidate of yesterday. We are a movement of the future. This is a movement, folks.This is a movement. This is a movement like our country has never seen before, and we are driving these characters crazy. They don't know. They are not happy. Our movement represents all Americans -- thank you -- from all backgrounds and all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters. There's going to be a lot of them, believe me.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.We are fighting to unlock the tremendous potential of every American community and every American family who yearn for a better future, a much better future. With your vote, we are just 10 days away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life.I will never let you down, I promise you that. I will never, ever let you down.We are a divided nation. We will not be divided any longer. We will be a nation that's powerful and strong, but a nation with love. Together we will make America just again, just. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. We will make America wealthy again. And we will make America great again.God bless you, everybody. Get out and vote. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you, Arizona.And we're doing great in the polls; we're winning many national polls and we're ahead in many states including your great state and North Carolina and Ohio and Florida and Iowa and so many others. Did you see how these polls came out yesterday and today? This was before the blow-up on Friday. These polls are from before the blow-up so we'll see.We're on the cusp of a really incredible, historic change that transfers power from a failed political establishment and returns that power to our families, communities and citizens. The state of Nevada, right? You know, I don't know if you know but everybody in New York says it the other way. And I did that once and I never will do it again, believe me. But we're going to win the state of Nevada and we're going to win back the White House.Early voting is under way so make sure you get to the polls. Who's voting? That's like 50%. If anybody wants to leave right now, go ahead; I won't be insulted. There's plenty of people outside that want to take your place, OK. No, make sure you vote because otherwise this incredible movement that we've created together we won't get there and that will be very, very bad for all of us. It will be very bad for the country.A Trump Administration will immediately repeal and replace Obamacare. It's just been announced that the citizens of Nevada are going to experience a massive, massive in fact, I don't even want to tell you what the number is; I won't because you'll walk out of here depressed double-digit hike in their Obamacare premiums for the year. Ten of Nevada's 16 counties will have only Obamacare. And think of it, you can have one exchange insurer to choose from. They are in a very good position to negotiate with you, aren't they? Not with Trump we're going to get rid of it and we're going to have health care that is so good and so much less expensive.Because Obamacare, forgetting about the cost which is ridiculous, it's no good; it doesn't work and your deductibles are so high you're never going to be able to use them. Obamacare is a catastrophe for your state.In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be close to 60%, the Democratic Governor has just said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive, in fact, much more expensive. My contract with the American Voter outlines a plan to repeal and replace Obamacare. And I'm asking for your vote so we can save health care for every family in your state and in this country.Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington. You've been seeing a little corruption, right, you've been seeing it. The system is rigged; it's rigged a little corruption you've been watching. As you've heard, it was just announced on Friday that the FBI is reopening their investigation into the criminal and illegal conduct of Hillary Clinton. Hillary has nobody but herself to blame for her mounting legal problems.Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional and purposeful. Hillary set up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding her criminal conduct from public disclosure and exposure. She set up this illegal server knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk and put the safety and security of your children at risk.To cover up her crimes, she bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a Congressional subpoena, after, after, after, after. She gets a subpoena and she deletes and bleaches and nobody even ever heard of bleaching. Did anybody ever hear of bleaching? You know why? It's such an expensive process but it makes them go away. But I have a feeling they've just found a lot of them, don't you think? I have a feeling.Hillary put the Office of Secretary of State up for sale and if she ever did get the chance, which we're not going to let her have, she'd put the Oval Office up for sale also. You have no doubt about that. Yet now it's reported that the Department of Justice is fighting the FBI. That's because the Department of Justice is trying so hard to protect Hillary Clinton.They didn't try to protect our Generals. They didn't try to protect a lot of other people. How can the Attorney General be involved in this case or tell the FBI what to do when the Attorney General violated sanctity of law by secretly meeting with Bill Clinton, the husband of the possible target of the investigation and a possible target himself, in an airplane on the tarmac in Arizona? Remember, he was going to play golf, remember? But he just happened to be at the airport hanging around and the Attorney General's plane drove by, right, and he said oh isn't that their plane, oh yes, gee let's say hello, let's say hello. It was a chance meeting they said, right.Well, the meeting lasted 39 minutes and they supposedly talked about golf and grandchildren. So I give two minutes to golf; I give five minutes to grandchildren. But what they probably really talked about was the Attorney General's reappointment should Hillary Clinton become President which I don't think is going to happen.Because of this highly-inappropriate meeting at best, the Attorney General took herself essentially out of the case and put Director Comey in charge of making decisions, you saw that decision-making process. So why is she now allowed to fight so hard to get someone who is so obviously guilty on so many different fronts off the hook? In fact, it was publicly reported that sources close to Hillary Clinton said, and she actually I think said it to the papers, that she was thinking of reappointing Attorney General Lynch. She was thinking, she said it; I mean it was a statement she made. And effectively, I guess you'd call that a bribe, wouldn't you? Wouldn't that be called a bribe? How could she say they're going to make a decision on her and you're talking about you're going to reappoint? She said it publicly, I believe.When I heard it I found it a little bit hard to believe that she'd say that. This is what we mean when we say the system is rigged, it's rigged. What makes us exceptional is that we are a nation of laws and that we are all equal under those laws. Hillary's corruption shreds the principals on which our nation was founded. When the powerful can get away with anything because they have the money and the connections to rig the system, then the people lose hope and confidence in the future of their country.Corruption is corrosive to the soul of a democracy and it must be stopped and we're going to stop it. Because we have one ultimate check on Hillary's corruption and that is the power of the vote, the power of the vote. The only way to beat the corruption is to show up and vote by the tens of millions including millions of people voting for the first time in their lives.There was a great guy on television that I have to tell you about. His name was Sid Miller from Texas. Oh, they know Sid Miller? We create yet another start. But he was on this morning; he was on Fox and a lot of you saw it. And he said you know these New Yorkers have it all wrong; you guys have it all wrong. He's from Texas wearing a big white hat, smart guy. He said you know in Texas I kept reading where we're even and I said wow, I don't' think so because I see the enthusiasm but the voting started. He said I've got to tell you we have more people voting now than we've ever had ever in an election. They're all coming from all over.They're people we've never seen before, they've never voted before, or they haven't voted for 20 years and they're all voting for Trump. And when they say, and he said, and when I listen to these guys talking, and I know every one of them because these are the most honest... I tell you what, these are the most dishonest human beings right back there.For instance, when we tell them to turn the cameras to show this incredible record crowd, record for this ballroom this is the record for this ballroom Sheldon told me that himself record. They don't show it. You're wasting your time. They don't show it because they're dishonest because they don't want to show the crowds that we get the biggest ever in this history of this country. There's never been a movement like this and they don't want to show it. And we're going to go into it in a couple of seconds but they are very dishonest.The media is very, very dishonest. Show the crowd. Why don't you show the crowd? Turn the cameras. They'll get up, a couple of them get up there and say, Donald Trump spoke today before a small crowd. It's disgusting. The other day a man got up we had 17,000 people he said Donald Trump spoke in front of a few thousand people. Well, a few to me means three, I don't' know that's the way I grew up. When I hear a few thousand people, that sort of means to me like three. Anyway, very, very dishonest people.But Sid Miller said we've never had anything like this. It's 50% higher than it has ever been before in Texas. And he said we're going to win and he wasn't for me he said Trump is going to win by massive numbers, bigger than anyone has ever seen. And he said, so I don't know what you people are talking about on television where they're saying the vote in Texas is going to very close. He said I don't know what you people are talking about; you must be talking about a different Texas than the one I'm from. So we love the people in Texas and I know what's going on.And you know what else? The same thing is happening in Florida. The same thing is happening in North Carolina it's happening all over because people are sick and tired of stupidity and deals and... look at Iran; look at the Iran deal they're sick and tired of the Iran deal. They don't want to be giving Iran $1.7 billion in cash It'd be from here up to the ceiling. They don't want to remember three weeks ago. They had 800 people that were getting to deport, right, you saw this, right. They had them bad, they were tough. Anybody that gets deported from this country, believe me, they have to be tough.So they have 800 little mistake; instead of deporting them, they all became United States citizens. And I'll tell you that's not the worst of them. The worst is it wasn't 800 people, it was 1800 people, OK. So congratulations you have some wonderful new citizens of this country. And they want to say that's OK, fix the problem, that's OK, fix it. They said, that wouldn't be constitutional. Give me a break. All right so we're stuck.$1.7 billion in cash to Iran; can you believe? Can you imagine their eyes when they saw that money being brought in by truck? Can you imagine? Did you ever see what a million dollars looks like in cash? It's a lot of... that's a lot of money $1.7 billion in cash. And then what do they do? They grab our sailors, our ten sailors, destroy their lives, humiliate those people. Instead of saying, hey listen you're in our waters; you've got to get over a little bit, they humiliate the sailors; they humiliated our country and they would've kept them except their $150 billion payment started the next day, OK stupid they're not.And people are tired of it. We're tired; we're sick and tired of it. And don't forget I was on the other side for a long time folks. I understand that side very well. And it's a good life but I love this country, I love the people of this country and we're going to change it. We're going to change it. We're going to do it right.So go out and vote with all your heart and soul and we're going to make America great again, that I can tell you OK. Restoring honesty to our government and the rule of law to our society will be one of my truly highest priorities. Now we have a lot. We have to rebuild our military; we have to create borders; we have to do so much. But that's going to be right up there. My contract with the American Voter begins with a plan to end government corruption. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words that we all, not me, we have to say.When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp. You know I told people the other day drain the swamp, I said I don't really like that expression; this was two weeks ago. I said, I don't love that expression, so hokey I thought it was hokey. I said, you know, and all of the sudden, I said I hate to use this, it's sort of like it doesn't work right. And I said it two weeks ago to a big crowd and I said it and the place went crazy. Then I said it a second time and the place went even crazier. And then the third time, like you, they started saying it before I said it. And all of the sudden, I decided I love that expression; it's a great expression crazy, right drain the swamp.Thank you. You know a man who loved Las Vegas was Frank Sinatra. And he had his... we like Frank Sinatra, right. Frank Sinatra, he was great. And when he originally heard and sang for the first time "My Way " how do we like "My Way", yes? But he didn't like it. But then he sang it a couple of times and then it went to number one and all of the sudden he loved it OK. So he loved it. That's the way it works, you never know.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs, right. Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. Forty-three percent of African American school-aged children are living in poverty. Thirty-four percent of Hispanic school-aged children live in poverty. This is unacceptable in our country; it's unacceptable in America.As your President, I will go into the poorest communities and work on a national plan for revitalization. We will break decades of failure and prove that real change is possible if we simply cut our ties with the failed politicians and politics of the past. America has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA and Hillary loved it.America, and this is something that every time I say it I always because it sounds crazy; I thought it was a typo; I thought it was 700 factories or 7,000 maybe America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization another Bill and Hillary backed deal. We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of our world. What's happened to our jobs is the greatest jobs theft, all because our politicians are either incompetent or they've gotten so much campaign contributions or other things, or other things, and the special interest, you know special interest like what's happening, but we're getting wiped out.You go to Michigan, you go to... I mean you go to New England. You look at areas around here, you look at what's happened it's a one lane highway into Mexico, no way out. They get the jobs; they get the money; they get the plans. I tell the story of my friend, he builds plants, he's the biggest in the world, he builds plants. That's what he does; that's what he wants to do; that's all he wants to do. If you said build an apartment he wouldn't know how to go about it, OK. All he does... he builds the biggest in the world. I said how is business; he said unbelievable; it's unbelievable where in the United States no, not at all. In Mexico, it's the seventh wonder of the world.So we've got to have... we've got to change things folks. A Trump Administration will stop the horrible, horrible, horrible Transpacific Partnership. We will renegotiate NAFTA. And we are going to stand up to China's currency manipulation. I have great relationships with China but their currency manipulation, what they do to our country, is unbelievable. We have a trade balance think of this we have a deficit, trade deficit, with China, almost $500 billion a year. We owe China $1.5 trillion.That's a good act they come in, they take our jobs, they make our product, they make a fortune and we owe them $1.5 trillion it's a good act. But we'll get it solved. I have great relations with China. I've made a lot of money with China. The biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in Manhattan and is from China, the biggest bank in the world by far, not even close. The condos I own the Bank of America building with a great partner in San Francisco, got it through China, through a certain very complicated realm.We're going to lower taxes on American business from 35% to 15%. We're going to cut taxes for middle class family by hundreds of billions of dollars a year. And my infrastructure plan will provide help for projects like the proposed Interstate 11 here in your state. We will become a rich nation again. We will become a rich country. And we have to be a rich country in order to do what we have to do.A woman came up to me recently and she said, Mr. Trump, it sounds so crass when you say we're going to become a rich nation. I said, but we have no choice. We need our Social Security; we need our Medicare. We have to rebuild our military. We need all of this stuff. We need all of this stuff. Yeah, make sure that she's OK. Some of these people have been here for eight hours. That's OK, you take your time. Take your time. Take your time. Maybe we can open that gate up. If we have to we should. Yeah, look at her. You OK. She's tougher than all of us folks; she's been here for eight hours. If you need to, you come right through here. We have strong people.Hey, did you see where the Democratic National Committee, did you see this? They were paying you know at the rallies where we used to have these fights and I didn't understand it. I'd say who is fighting. We're like, there is so much love in these rooms. By the way, there is no better place to be than a Trump rally, right. So I said, what's going on. And we had in Chicago where the police, and we love our police by the way, where the police, a couple of them had gashes in their heads, I said what's going on. This doesn't make sense.So it came out through WikiLeaks that we had thugs, thugs, who should be put in jail by the way they attacked policemen in addition to our people but they were paying thugs. Hillary Clinton was paying thugs $1,500 each plus an iPhone and they were paying these thugs to go in and disturb our rallies and get into fights. And that was on a tape made by a very talented young man, I will tell you that, a very talented guy. And they got him on a tape bragging about how they did it.And everybody blamed me, right, and they blamed us, that the rallies are violent. Let me tell you, it's a disgrace, it's a disgrace. It is such a disgrace. And lots of other things happen where they take care of people and then bad things but we don't fall for it. To be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. We'll support local police and federal law enforcement in an effort to aggressively reduce surging crime.So far this year in Las Vegas homicides have increased 27% over last year. And by the way, people don't know this because this dishonest media will never say it, murder rates are up right now, murder is up 45 think of it, think of it. Do you know what it is? In 45 years, in 45 years, right now, the rates are the highest they've been, the murder rates, the highest they've been in 45 years, and they don't want to talk about it. They don't want to talk about it. Do you know what you do?Let her out. Open the gate and let her out right here. It's so much easier. Fellas, fellas open the gate, use your heads, let her out right here. Thank you darling, thank you. If you feel better, come back. We will take her back? Yes, we love her. Thank you.Latinos For Trump I love that; give me that shirt. I love this stuff. From Mexico...She's better than me; I never did it that well, boy. That's so great. We are going to do so well with the Latinos. And we are going to do so well because we want security, we want safety we don't want people... you have so many people... they're living here legally; they have a job; they don't' want their jobs taken away. I mean, it's like... but I appreciate that. That was really nice.We will also keep our nation safe. Thank you, thank you, thank you. Thank you very much. We are going to keep our nation safe from a thing called terrorism. Hillary Clinton wants to increase Syrian refugees pouring into our country by 550% that's over Obama's numbers. That's over the thousands and thousands that are already coming in through Obama. When I'm elected President we will suspend the Syrian refugee program. I have no choice. And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country, believe me.But we're also going to work to build safe havens over there and we're going to get the Gulf States to pay for it. We don't have to pay for it; they have plenty of money. We're going to get the Gulf States to pay for it and they will pay for it and we have to help the people. But we just can't do this anymore folks. We have problems. We don't need to be the Great Trojan Horse, a modern day version, the Great Trojan Horse it's not going to be us.A Trump Administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a wall. Sheldon, you have a great, great hotel but I tell you we could've made this ballroom a little bit larger maybe, could've made it larger. This is some great space.And we also have by the way the legendary Phil Ruffin of Las Vegas; where is Phil; where is he? All right get him over here. He employs thousands of people and he's a great guy.Hillary has pledged open borders and supports sanctuary cities. Countless Americans are killed by illegal immigrants because our Government refuses to do its job. Right here in your state, 20-year-old Brian Coursey was shot and paralyzed by an illegal immigrant. He fought for his life in the hospital for 17 days. Ultimately he died. Bryan was a basketball star loved by everybody with dreams of becoming a firefighter right here.On Mother's Day in 2009, Carson City, born beautiful, beautiful person just an incredible person, Rene Angulo, was out driving looking for a job when he was shot in the head and murdered by a previously-deported illegal immigrant gang member. Everybody said we must get him out of our country; we must incarcerate him; we must do something. This guy was brutal. Rene was pulled from his vehicle and left to die on the side of a road. A good Samaritan who thought there had been a car accident stopped to help and he was also shot. The illegal immigrant killer had a previous conviction as an accessory to murder in Carson City and he had a record as long as your arm. But the Obama Administration didn't want to put him out.Josh Wilkerson, whose mother I've gotten to know during this campaign, was murdered at the age of 17. Josh, a student at a high school and a good student, was tortured, strangled and beaten to death by an illegal immigrant and then his body was set on fire. And there are so many of these stories.When I become President this crime wave will end and it will end very, very quickly. We will end illegal immigration. We will deport all criminal illegal immigrants. You have a lot of people that are walking around. And the great thing is our local police; they know who they are they know them better than they know their own family. And we will get them out. Now when Hillary brought them out, they'd bring them back to their country and the country very intelligently wouldn't take them, right. And so, we would bring them back and we'd release them into our society. She would always let them come back. She didn't want to make waves. That will never, ever happen once, not once, with me.We will also, it's so important... and by the way the border patrol agents of this country and ICE, both of them, they've never endorsed a candidate for President before both groups, every one of them, both groups endorsed Donald Trump for that reason.We will also repeal the Obama/Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly-depleted military. We have the greatest people in the world but we need help. We have the endorsements of over 200 Admirals and Generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. And I want to thank General Flynn for being here, great guy, great man.Our Air Force is the smallest and oldest in its history and my plan for building new fighter jets. Oh, you know what this is, Nellis, Nellis Air Force Base you're going to have nice new planes, Nellis Air Force Base. Did you ever see where our fighter jets are so old that we can't get parts anymore for them? These are planes in service that are so old we can't get parts; that's going to change. The enemy has better planes than us and they buy them from us or they take them.We also need a new foreign policy that puts America First again, America First. Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East and now it's in worse shape. I mean think of it, all of that money, all of those lives, and it's far worse shape than it ever has been by a factor of 10. They've dragged us into foreign wars. They've made us less safe. And these are wars that they never win; we don't win. We don't win at anything we don't win at trade; we don't win at wars. They've left our borders wide open at home and they've shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.To all Americans I say it is now time for real leadership. We're going to have real leadership. So sad, so sad. Thank you, thank you. In closing, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump Administration.We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. We will eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation. We will cancel every illegal Obama Executive Order. And by the way, Hillary Clinton, just in case you don't know it, you do know, she wants to raise your taxes substantially. We are lowering your taxes. She wants to raise your taxes substantially.We are going to rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans. Our veterans are going to be taken proper care of for once and for all. We'll reduce surging crime and support the incredible men and women of law enforcement. We are going to provide school choice, it's very important, and put an end to Common Core so we can bring our education local. We will save the Second Amendment which is under siege. The NRA endorsed Trump; the NRA endorsed us. And we will appoint Justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Americans are tired of being told by politicians that they have to defer their dreams to another day but they really mean defer their dreams to another decade you know that and I know that and they know that. Hillary has been there for 30 years and she's accomplished nothing. She's just made things worse. She's a candidate of yesterday and we are the movement of the future.And speaking of the future, here is Mr. Phil, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Phil Ruffin, one of the great people of Las Vegas, I will tell you, one of the great, great people. How many people do you employ in Las Vegas? He employs 4,000 people; that's pretty good, right? I'm a little disappointed; I thought it was more.Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and from all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and first-time voters there's going to be a lot of them; there's going to be a lot of them.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and the special interest. We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future for their children. Washington, D.C. wants to think small but I am asking you to dream big again, dream big again.With your vote, we are just nine days from the change you've been waiting for your entire life, think of it, think of it nine days. And you are going to remember this day and you're going to remember when you casts your vote and you're going to say that this was a very important day, but you're going to say that the vote you casts was the most important vote that you've ever casts because our country will start winning again. We're going to start winning again and you're going to be proud of your country again.And hopefully, hopefully, you'll be proud of your President. But you're going to be proud of your country again. Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will America safe again. And we will America great again. Thank you very much everybody. Get out and vote. God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you, Coach. Boy, oh boy.No games, right? With him there's no games.Thank you, Coach.Thank you, General.What a combination those two are right?Boy this is a great group. You know, we set this up about 24 hours ago, because I hear we're going great in Michigan -- we're gonna win Michigan.We're doing great in every poll, I mean we're doing amazing.We're winning in Ohio. We're winning in Iowa. We're winning in North Carolina.We're winning in Florida.We're winning big in Texas -- you know, they were saying Texas is -- Texas is setting new voting records. We're winning all over the place, folks. This is going to be something special.In eight days we're going to win the great state of Michigan...... and we are going to win back the White House. One hundred percent.Let me start today by making a very important promise to you. When I win on November 8th, I am going to bring your jobs back to America.You know it better than anybody else in this country. The long nightmare of jobs leaving Michigan will be coming to a very rapid end. We're going to make Michigan the economic envy of the entire world once again, it used to be the economic envy.The political class in Washington has betrayed you. They've uprooted your jobs, your communities and they've shipped your wealth all over the world, to Mexico, and all over. They put up new skyscrapers in Beijing, while your factories in Michigan were crumbling. These we're our politicians. I will end the theft of American prosperity, believe me.I will fight for every last Michigan job -- you're going to have plenty of jobs get ready.Because when we win it's going to be America First.So, you have to make sure you get in your absentee ballots and get out to the polls on November 8th. You have to get those ballots in. Anybody send in their ballot, anybody?All right, big thing November 8th. We'll never have another chance to do this again, you know we've created a movement, this is like a great movement, that the whole world is talking about. And honestly you'll never have this chance, in four years, I don't care who it is that runs, your never gonna have this chance. So you have to get out and vote. Vote with all of your heart, vote with all of your soul, because this is it.Show the whole world how much you love Michigan and how much you love America by voting. So that we take back our jobs and we re-build our military and we do so many other things including border, we've gotta have a border.I'm asking for your vote.We will build the wall, do not worry about it.Do not worry.We don't build a wall, Bobby Knight is going to be very angry at me, so we're gonna build the wall. And you know what else, you know who is paying for the wall, right?One hundred percent. They don't quite know that yet, but they're going to find out. No, they're good. I met with the president of Mexico, a couple of months ago, he was great, the whole thing is going to work out, but we are going to have to have a wall. We have to stop the poison from blowing in. You know the poison, the drugs, they're flowing in, they are poisoning your state.They are poisoning New Hampshire. New Hampshire tells me an -- for a year and a half they have been telling me stories, unbelievable. But, every state, the poison is pouring in and we're gonna stop the drugs, we're gonna stop those drugs fast. Then we are going to work on the people that are so badly addicted. We're gonna get them better.I'm asking for the vote of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and first time voters who want great jobs, safe neighborhoods and a government that works for the people.What a disaster.It's just been announced that Michigan residents are going to experience crushing double-digit premium hikes, congratulations -- congratulations.In fact a number is so high, I don't want to give it to you 'cause I want you to have a good time today, OK? I don't want to ruin your day, I'll just see you sort of slump out of here, no.By the way, any place more fun to be than a Trump rally?And honestly, the subject right now isn't so positive because it's what's going on with our country. But we're going to make it so positive -- we're going to make it so positive. In Minnesota, where the premium -- I mean, you have to see what happens in Minnesota, but the increase is over 60 percent. The Democratic governor has said -- and he's a big Democrat -- the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. He took a little heat for that.Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, make it even more expensive. In fact, much more expensive than ever before, she's gonna double down. In all fairness though folks -- based on what we're reading -- in all fairness I think right now, she has bigger problems than Obamacare.And they finally have gotten wise to the Clintons, perhaps they've finally gotten wise.Wow. Thank you. I love you, too.And I have to give the FBI credit, that was so bad what happened originally, and it took guts for Director Comey to make the move that he made, in light of the kind of opposition he had, where they're trying to protect her from criminal prosecution, you know that. It took a lot of guts, I really disagreed with him, I was not his fan. But I'll you what he did, he brought back his reputation -- he brought it back. He's got to hang tough, because there's a lot of -- a lot of people want him to do the wrong thing. What he did was the right thing.I'm asking for your vote so that we can replace Obamacare and save the healthcare -- and look, the healthcare in this country, is in such dire straits. We are going to save healthcare for every family in Michigan, for every family in our country.Much less expensive, much better healthcare. Repeal and replace. We have so many alternatives, so much better, so much less expensive. Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.As you know, the FBI has re-opened its investigation into Hillary Clinton and discovered...... and discovered -- you heard this yesterday -- it's hard to believe -- and discovered another 650,000 emails. She lied under oath when she turned over all of her work related emails. Just one more lie out of so many. And you know, General Cartwright, a four- star general, lied one time -- and I think he did it actually for national security purposes. He lied one time, he may go to jail for five years. She's lied so many times and the deletions. This is the biggest scandal since Watergate. Hillary wants to blame everyone else for her mounting legal troubles, but she has brought all of this on herself.Hillary is the one who set up any legal private email server, in a closet, to shield her illegal activity. Hillary is the one who engaged in a corrupt pay-for-play scheme at the State Department. And now there are five FBI probes into the Clinton foundation and their pay-for-play activities, very, very deep investigations. Hillary is the one who sent and received classified information on an insecure server, putting the safety of the American people under threat. That's what she did.Six-hundred-and-fifty thousand -- you know, what I call that? That's the mother load. That's the -- I think you're gonna find the 33,000 that are missing, the 15,000 that are missing, the bats that are missing two weeks ago. You know, they had boxes of emails missing two weeks ago? I think we hit the mother load, as they say in the good old mining industry.Hillary is the one who lied to Congress under oath. Hillary is the one who lied on so many different occasions to the FBI, and they know -- they know. They know Hillary's the one who made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.Hillary is the one who destroyed 33,000 emails after she got the subpoena, after. Before it's no good, but after, no; that's why something should've happened then, but that's OK.Hillary is the one who broke the law over and over and over again. We can be sure that what is in those emails is absolutely devastating and I think we're gonna find out, by the way, for the first time.Thank you, Huma. Thank you, Huma. Good job, Huma.Thank you, Anthony Weiner.And you all saw the statements I made him a year ago -- about him a year ago. You know, in New York we knew Weiner.And I made statements that were rough, like how can she be allowed to live with this guy, how can she have access to this important information. And I was badly criticized, right? Now, they're saying oh, Trump has good judgment, wow.Got good instincts, I have good instincts.Hillary is not the victim. The American people are the victims of this corrupt system in every way. And this is your one chance, right now, November 8th to change it.Hillary is likely to be under investigation for a very long time. One of her long time supporters, a top Democratic pollster, good guy, smart guy, sharp guy, Doug Schoen is now totally withdrawing his support. He's supported their family for years.He wrote in an article -- he wrote in an article quote, "I'm a Democrat. I worked for Bill Clinton. But I can't vote for Hillary." And this is so important, Schoen writes, "I'm now convinced that we will be facing the very real possibility of a constitutional crisis with many dimensions and deleterious, " and we all know that, "consequences should Secretary Clinton win the election."Now, I don't think that's gonna happen so hopefully.That happens, we did a bad job out here, folks. Schoen warns that if Hillary is elected, she would be under protracted criminal investigation and probably a criminal trial, I will say.So we'd have a criminal trial for a sitting president. In the meantime, Putin -- who she likes to say bad things about -- and all of the other leaders, many of whom she says bad things about, then you wonder why the world hates us.But all of these people will sit back and they will laugh and they will smile. The investigation will last for years. The trial would probably start, nothing will get done, I can tell you your cars will continue to leave Michigan.Your car production facilities, like the Ford facility, will continue to leave Michigan, nothing's gonna get done. Our country will continue to suffer. She's unfit and unqualified to be the president of the United States and her election...Would mire our government and our country in a constitutional crisis that we cannot afford, folks, we have to get back to work, we have to get back to work.We need to be going to work for the American people, we can't do what Hillary would like to do and that's become president. You can't take it, I can't take it, nobody can take it.And by the way, we do not need four more years of Obama that I can tell you right now, that, I can tell you.Four more years of ISIS running wild. Four more years of no borders, four more years of losing all of your jobs, four more years of a depleted military, we're not building up our military for the great people in our military.Hillary -- that's right. Hillary Clinton's corruption...Eight days, you're right.Is a threat to democracy and the only way to save our democracy is to get our and vote by the millions, by the millions. Don't leave it to chance.We're all hearing about our system is too honorable, it's to honest -- both right, they say it's so honest, it's so honest that you can name 10 places, so can I. But you hear so much about the honesty.Let's do this, let's not worry about it, get out and vote by the millions and we won't have to worry about what's taking place behind the scenes.Remember this, 1.8 million people that are dead are registered to vote. You know, they talk about oh, that's a threat to democracy what I'm saying, 1.8 million people, 2.75 million people are registered to vote in two states.So they vote here, they go to another state, they vote there. There's so many things going on folks. And Obama the other day on television, talk to you about the bedrock of our foundation and this is going to be so.But the other day, eight years ago when he was running for the first time, he essentially was talking about how corrupt the election system is in Chicago. I saw it.I said wait a minute, he's telling us how Trump shouldn't be saying these things and this guy, eight years ago, is on television last night, talking about how corrupt it is and saying I'm lucky I'm from Chicago.In other words, its corrupt, it's corrupt. He's lucky he's the beneficiary of the corruptness. Folks, get out and vote by the millions so they can't do anything. We can't let them take it away.The Clinton crime spree ends on November 8th, it's gonna end on November 8th. And when we close the chapter on the Clintons, we open a bright new chapter, focused on the American people.So we wanna now be a little uplifting because you know what? We have such tremendous potential, tremendous potential in our country. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to restore honesty and accountability in our government.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to heed the words we are about to say, get ready. When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp, we're gonna drain the swamp.And speaking of draining the swamp, Donna Brazile did it again, WikiLeaks today. She gave the questions to a debate to Hillary Clinton and that was from a couple of weeks ago.Happened again, but this time far worse. She gave the questions to a debate to Hillary Clinton. Now, they're all blaming Donna Brazile and frankly, I think she just got fired from the network.She should be fired from the DNC. By the way, could you imagine if I did that? Bobby, what would happen to be if I did that? Electric chair, I think, the electric chair. If I did that, can you imagine?So Donna Brazile got fired from the network but here's the real problem, uh oh.There's only one. There's only one Bobby Knight.Thank you. Thank you, Bobby. Thank you. What a great place to be. Thank you, Bobby.And you know, we also have the endorsement of a great, great guy, Jack Nicklaus. Jack Nicklaus. You talk about winners, Jack is such a winner, Bobby is such a winner. We have so many endorsements. We have so many endorsements from such great, great winners. We love Jack.At the core of our contract is my plan to bring back your jobs. Michigan has lost more than one in four manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA, a deal strongly supported by Hillary Clinton.Before NAFTA went into effect, there were 280,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today, that number is only 160 thousand, and believe me, it's going down and going down fast. Our country has lost -- listen to this -- 70,000 factories, 70,000, Bobby. Do you heard that? Seventy-thousand. I thought it was 700, I thought it was 7,000 -- 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill -- that was another Bill and Hillary disaster.We get nothing. He said what do we get? We get -- we get loss and unemployment. We have nearly $800 billion in annual trade deficits with the world, $800 billion. We do all of this trade. We have a trade deficit of $800 million. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world and the people of Michigan, perhaps almost more than any other place, know that.Our trade deficit with China grew almost 40 percent during Hillary's tenure as secretary of State. It's massive. Her trade deal with South Korea, you know all about that one, she was pushing it so hard. Instead of making 100,000, it killed 100,000 American jobs. So when you look around Michigan and you see the rusted out factories, the empty buildings and the long unemployment lines, remember, Hillary Clinton did much of this to you. She wasn't there.And during the debates, you watch the debates -- did I win the debates, by the way?The reason she'll never do it is because her donors don't want it done, OK? And I'll have over $100 million in my campaign, which means $100 million of people that aren't giving me money. I will tell you this, on the internet, people -- $61 average. Sixty-one dollars. We're setting records, setting records.It's amazing. Hillary got rich selling your jobs to the same special interests who pushed the jobs out of America, are the people who have given countless millions to her. She's not gonna change. Hillary gets rich making America poor. Look at the devastation here. Delphi laid off 3,627 workers. You know that. And you know where they moved? Different places. Most of those jobs went to Mexico.By the way, Mexico's doing very well. If she's working for Mexico, I think she's doing a great job.We're going to fight for the workers at Delphi. Anybody here from Delphi? A few? They don't want to raise their hand. This guy had his hand sort of partially up. Are you -- he was like "Uh." In other words -- don't worry, you'll be proud of it very soon. They got a raw deal and they deserve better.GM laid off 314 workers at the Lake Orion assembly plant in 2013 because of imports from the South Korean trade deal pushed by Hillary. That was her baby. Lear Corporation laid off many people in Rochester Hills and moved their jobs to South Korea. FTE Automotive laid off 166 people in Auburn Hills, place I know well. Their jobs went to Mexico. Chrysler laid off 5,300 workers. Those jobs went to Mexico, China and India, and numerous other countries.Ford laid off 2,155 workers. Their small car division is out, they're gone; they moved to Mexico. Now Ford is moving a lot of different -- a lot of different production facilities to a lot of different areas. But when you look at what's going on in our country, we want them here.A Trump administration will stop the flight of American jobs. If Ford or another company announces they want to move their jobs to Mexico or to another country, then I will pick up the phone and if I have to, I'll do it personally even though some people would say it's not presidential. Do I care?It's not presidential, sir. But I have some of the greatest business leaders -- Carl Icahn. We have some of the greatest business people in the world endorsing me. They will do it unbelievably well, believe me.But we will have -- and we will use our great business people. We'll use our great -- we have the greatest negotiators in the world. We don't use them. We use political hacks to make trade deals. Our trade deal with Mexico, NAFTA, is a defective deal. It was defective almost from the beginning because we have different tax systems. They're on a VAT system. We're on our system.Well, there's a 17 -- almost a 17 percent difference. So every deal that we make, we are behind 17 percent before we even start. People have known that for years and years and years and it's a defective agreement. Nobody's ever changed it. Believe me, it's going to get changed very quickly, OK?I will call the executives and I will tell them that if they want to do that, where they're taking their factories and they're taking their everything and they're moving it and they think they're gonna sell their cars or their air conditioning units back into the country. We will charge them a 35 percent tax when they try to ship their products back across what will end up being an extremely strong border.So, all I say is this. You want to build your plant in Mexico, have a great time, but if you think you're gonna ship your product across the border -- which will be a very strong border, by the way.You think you're gonna ship your stuff across the border for no tax, no nothing so we end up with unemployment and end up -- we end up with empty plants and factories and you end up with the money, the jobs and the plants, you can forget it. And you know what would happen? If you said that right up front, nobody's leaving, folks. You stop it right away. The politicians don't want to say that because most of them are too stupid to even understand it.But the ones that aren't are taken care of by the special interests and their donors because they want those companies to move because it's to their benefit. It used to be that cars were made in Flint and you couldn't drink the water in Mexico. Now the cars are made in the Mexico and you can't drink the water in Flint. Not good.But we're gonna turn it all around and we're going to rebuild Flint. I was to Flint recently, and I'll tell you what, it's gone down a long way. And we're going to help you rebuild Detroit.And Mr. Gilbert has done a great job, by the way. Friend of mine. Done a great job. And we're going to rebuild Michigan and we're going to keep your jobs and lots of other things.So I'd like to share a special message with the African-American community of Michigan, which has been so terribly harmed by the policies of the Clintons and a lot of the Democratic politicians. Look at the city of Detroit. Take a look. It used to be the manufacturing hub of the world. Now, nearly half of Detroit residents don't work, it has the second-highest violent crime rate in the United States and the children are trapped in failing, horrible government schools.Yet as the people of Detroit suffer, Hillary wants to spend trillions of dollars on government benefits for illegal immigrants and refugees pouring into our country.I've outlined a plan for urban renewal, which I believe so strongly in. It's called a new deal for black America.That deal includes a plan to use the money we will save by securing our border and curbing refugee admissions, to invest in communities like Flint and Detroit. We're gonna bring in big numbers of jobs. Tremendous incentives.It includes a pledge of school choice for African-American children.My plan also includes a promise to cancel billions and billions of dollars in climate change spending for the United Nations.It's insane. A number that Hillary wants to actually increase. And instead, use that money to provide for American infrastructure, including clean air and clean water.You saw this recently. We're gonna to spend billions and billions and billions of dollars for a plan that we don't even know where the money's going. And in the meantime, our companies won't be able to compete because they're being regulated and restricted. They're not gonna be able to compete. And I'm an environmentalist. I will tell you, I've received many environmental awards. But I want clean air, I want crystal clean water and I want safety. And we don't have to give hundreds of billions of dollars away to people that are probably laughing at us and not going to do -- you know where the money's going. Not gonna happen.My plan also includes a pledge to reduce violent crime. Every child in this nation has a right to grow up in safety and in peace.And my plan includes a pledge to restore manufacturing in the United States. We're going to start making things again. Hillary and the Democratic Party have run the inner cities for years and only produced more poverty, more crime, worse education. The time has come for real change.I am asking you for the honor of your vote so together, we can turn decades of political failure into generations of lasting access for your children and your grandchildren.Hillary, on the other hand, wants to destroy what's left of manufacturing in Michigan with the Transpacific Partnership. By the way, a disaster. It's a disaster.A Trump administration will stop the Transpacific Partnership. And by the way, we're going to have tremendous trade deals, but we're not gonna have a deal that's 6,000 pages long, that ties in all of these countries together. You have to see a bar chart, lines all over the place. If somebody does something wrong you can't do, we're gonna have single lines going to single -- single different countries. And if they don't do good by us, we send them what's called a letter of termination, 30 days.And during that 30 days, they'll call and we'll probably make a new deal and it'll be even better. Simple deals, folks. You have to see this crazy Transpacific Partnership.And they don't take care of monetary manipulation, which is the single biggest weapon that foreign countries use to kill us, especially China. They're grand masters. We will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal. We'll make a much better deal.We are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We are going to massively cut taxes for the middle class.We will unleash American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal. We're going to put our miners back to work.The Obama-Clinton war on coal is going to cost this state 50,000 jobs at least, and you have a war on your steelworkers too, folks. Your steelworkers are suffering. We will also work to restore and protect the Great Lakes. We are going to become...We are going to become a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees pouring into this country.Hillary's immigration plans mean generation of terrorism, extremism and radicalism spreading into our schools, our communities and every other place right here in Michigan and all throughout the United States. When we win, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. We have no choice.And we'll build safe havens for them in Syria. We're going to get the money from the Gulf states. They have plenty of money. They don't do their share. We'll get the money from the Gulf states. We'll lead the effort because we all have heart. We see what's happening. But we can't do this. We don't want to be the great Trojan horse of the future. It's not gonna happen to us, folks. You see what's happening in Germany. You see what's happening in Paris. People don't even go to Paris anymore.My friend used to go to Paris. "Oh, Donald, I love Paris. It's just so beautiful." For years -- I said to him the other day, "How's Paris?" He said, "We don't go there. Are you crazy?" No, we're not going to be the stupid people anymore, folks. We're gonna be the smart people.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a wall and you know that. We received -- so important. You have to have it. I don't know if you know, Hillary wanted a wall. Did you know that? And you know why they didn't it, a big fence, wall? You know why they didn't build it? They couldn't get their environmental impact statements. Can you believe it? The United States of America wants to put up a wall in '06, 2016. Hillary was in favor of it. They couldn't get the approval to build the wall. Can you believe this?And then you see China in the middle of the South China Sea building a massive fortress. And you know what happened? They said Sunday evening, let's do it. You know when work started? Monday morning. I jokingly said to a friend of mine in China, how long did it take you to get the environmental impact statement approved? He looked at me and said, you're kidding, aren't you? I said, yes, I'm kidding.So they're building, they're ripping it up with the biggest excavators you've ever seen and they're ripping it up and they're building -- they're not supposed to be doing it, by the way. The only reason they're doing it is because they have no respect for our president who's out campaigning all the time. This guy ought to spend more time in bringing jobs back to Michigan and less time -- and less time fighting for somebody who's under criminal investigation which he shouldn't be doing.We've received the first-ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers; 16,500 border patrol officers. The first time they've ever done it because they know we know what we're doing. They tell us the border crisis is the worst it's ever been. It's a national emergency. They also warn that America's plan under Hillary Clinton is the most radical proposal -- quote, "radical proposal in U.S. history."When I become president, we will end illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens. We have people in this country that are serious, serious criminals. And we will put America First.You know, we have some very, very rough people, and we want to deport the people while she was Secretary of State and they bring these people back to their countries, and the countries very intelligently, they said, no, we don't want a murder; no, we don't want a drug dealer; we don't want the head of a gang in Los Angeles; they call up the Secretary of State's office. They said, oh, that's OK. Bring them back. So we release them right into our country. How stupid are we? And I promise you -- it's well-known -- I promise you, whether it's four years or eight years, we'll figure that out. There won't be one time -- there won't be one time when any of these thugs come back into our country. Not one time.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We need a new foreign policy that puts America First and we're going to have it very, very quickly. Hillary led us to disaster in Iraq, in Syria, in Libya. Then after Benghazi, she looked the families of the fallen in the eye and lied. She blamed their deaths on a video, which was a lie.Remember when she back to Bosnia? Under fire, remember? Oh, it was under fire, it was so dangerous. Seriously. Under fire. Remember? But they had a video clip she landed and these beautiful little girls were handing flowers and they -- she came under fire. It turned out not to be true. She apologized. She apologized.But you have to ask her, the media -- the most dishonest people, they have to ask her -- they have to ask her --They have to ask her. They have to ask her, when Donna Brazile, who I told you just got fired, when Donna Brazile gave her the questions to the debate -- asked this question to her, why didn't she report it? She accepted those questions. She accepted those questions to the debate. She had the questions to the debate. Forget about Donna -- I don't care about Donna Brazile. Why didn't Hillary Clinton report that she was given essentially unethically, probably illegally, why didn't she report that she had the questions?Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East and now it's worse than it's ever been before. Had Obama and others gone to the beach, Obama could have gone to the golf course. We would have been in much better shape. We shouldn't have gone into the war, and she thinks I'm a hawk. Oh, Donald Trump. We shouldn't have gone in. And we certainly shouldn't have gotten out the way we got out, because she created a vacuum ISIS formed.Now she's I'm going to get rid of -- she's going to rid of ISIS. She has zero chance. She is dreaming. ISIS is dreaming about her becoming president. And she also -- you know, she's going to fix it. There was no ISIS when she was Secretary of State. She and Obama created it through the vacuum that they created by stupidly the way they got out. Even Mosul -- we're trying to retake Mosul for a second time, because we essentially gave it up, so now we're going in. And we gave them -- did we give them enough advanced notice? Four months is enough time, right?General, did we give Mosul enough advanced notice? I think so. Four months. And I keep saying, whatever happened to the element of surprise, the element of surprise. and we're trying to retake Mosul a second time. We essentially gave it up. Did we give them enough advanced notice? four months is enough time. General, did we give Mosul enough advanced notice? I think so. Four months. And I keep saying, whatever happened to the element of surprise? The element of surprise. Imagine if some of the money had been spent, $6 trillion in the Middle East, on building new schools and roads and bridges right here in Michigan.Now Hillary, trapped in her Washington bubble, that's blind to the lessons, wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia that could drag us into a World War III. OK, folks. She -- I will tell you what. She will get us into World War III. She will get us into World War III. I will tell you that. She's incompetent. She will get us into World War III. The arrogant political class never learns. They keep repeating the same mistakes over and over again. They keep telling the same lies. They keep producing the same failed results. How can Hillary manage this country when she can't even manage her emails?It's just one disaster after another, one scandal after another, one betrayal after another. To all Americans I say it is now time for new leadership. All of them.And just in finishing up, in finishing up, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. Hillary is increasing your taxes. We will eliminate every unnecessary job- killing regulation. We're going to cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We will rebuild our military, and we are going to take great care of our fantastic veterans. It's about time.Twenty-two veterans a day commits suicide. Can you believe that number? Twenty-two veterans a day are committing suicide. They wait on line for seven, eight, nine days when a simple prescription or a simple procedure could solve their problem -- 22 veterans, these are our greatest people, committing suicide a day. It's not going to be that way anymore, folks. We're going to take care of our veterans, and I have tremendous veteran support. We are going to totally support the men and women of law enforcement.We will save the second amendment which is under total siege.And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can't change and wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C. I am asking you to dream big, dream big, to push for bold change and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love of our country.I'm tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day when they really mean another decade, or many decades away. America is tired of incompetence. America is tired of waiting. The moment is now. All we have to do is stop believing in our failed politicians, and start believing in each other. We have to. Start believing in each other and start believing in the greatness of our country.There is no challenge too great, no dream outside of our reach. Don't reach. Don't let anyone tell you it can't be done. The future lies with the dreamers, not the cynics, not the critics.Hillary has been there for 30 years, and she's accomplished nothing. She's just made things worse. She is a candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future. We're the movement of the future.Some of the greatest political pundits today, Bill O'Reilly, many others, said this is the single greatest political phenomena of their lifetime. It is.And folks, we don't want to throw it away. That's why we have to get out and vote November 8th. Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, independents and first-time voters, of which there are so many. We are asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice, not money and power, should rule the day. We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors, not the special interests.We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better day and a better future. With your vote, we are just eight days away from the change you've been waiting for, for your entire life.Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you, everybody. God bless you. Get out and vote, Michigan. Get out and vote November 8th. Thank you, everybody. God bless you.Thank you. Thank you Bobby. What a man.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare. It's a disaster.It's just been announced that Michigan residents are going to experience a massive double digit premium hike in Obamacare.I will not tell you the number. I know the number, but I want everybody to leave her happy. But you'll be happy because we'll repeal it. We'll replace it. We're going to get you something so good. So much less expensive. So much better ---- activity. The one who engaged in a corrupt pay for play scheme at the State Department. And now there are five FBI probes into the Clinton Foundation and their pay for play activities. Hillary is the one who sent and received classified information on an insecure server putting the safety of the American people under threat. Hillary is the one who lied to Congress under oath. She lied about turning over her work related emails. She lied about sending classified information. And she lied about using only one device. In other words, she lied. Man, is she a liar.Man does she lie. Alright. Get them out of here. Get them out.A paid protestor. A paid protestor.(USA. USA. USA)Did you see on WikiLeaks? Oh, the great thing, look the cameras are actually looking over there finally.They never want to show the massive crowds that we have. Look at that. Did you see where, on WikiLeaks, it was announced that they were paying protestors to be violent, $1,500.I wonder if that's one of them. No, he doesn't look to violent to me. Doesn't look violent to me. Hillary is the one who lied to the FBI and then pretended she couldn't remember 39 different times. Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.Hillary destroyed 33,000 emails after getting a subpoena from the United States Congress, think of that one. I have a feeling in the 650,000 you're going to find the 33,000, it's looking like.And it just came out. To me this is so bad. It's so bad. But it just came out. Did you see Donna Brazile was fired from the network?For giving, for giving Crooked Hillary the answers and the questions to a debate.But the media, which is one of the most dishonest groups of people ever, ever, ever, you're ever going to meet.They don't say, who cares about Donna Brazile. Who cares? What I care about is Hillary Clinton gets the questions to a debate. That's a big deal. And then what happens is the media, they never say, why didn't you turn it in? Why did you use those questions? She used the questions, now on numerous occasions. Because this just came out today. This is in addition to the other day. So nobody's saying, why did Hillary Clinton not turn it in? You know I have a son named Baron. And I want to tell you, she is a terrible example for my son and for the children in this country. That I can tell you.Hillary's the one who broke the law over, and over, and over again. And by the way, we don't forget. We do want the answer to that question media. Ask her. Why didn't she say that she had the questions to the debate? I hope you're going to be able to give us that answer.They're worse than she is.Do you believe it?It's a rigged system folks. And a big part of the rigging is the media. I will tell you right now. It's a big part of the rigging. Big part of the rigging.It's a big part of the rigging. Among the most dishonest people you'll ever meet. Hillary is not the victim. The American people are the victims of this corrupt and rigged system. And on November 8th, that's your chance, we are going to change it.Hillary Clinton is a dishonest person. And you know what? It all shows at so many things. But getting, I'm serious about this. Because somebody said, oh, maybe that's not that big a deal. To me it's a big deal. Getting the questions to the debate, that's a big deal. That's a big deal. And not turning yourself in. And if they fired Donna Brazile, why aren't they firing Hillary Clinton? Why is she allowed to run?Hillary Clinton is unfit and unqualified to be the President of the United States. And she's likely to be under investigation for criminality for a very, very long time to come. One of her long time supporters, a top Democratic pollster and a very respected man, Doug Shone is now withdrawing his support from Hillary Clinton.He wrote a recent article. He said, I'm a Democrat. I work for Bill Clinton. But I can't vote for Hillary. He went on, I'm now convinced. So important, folks this is so important. Because our country has enough problems. He said, I'm not convinced that we will be facing the very possibility of a Constitutional crisis with many dimensions and you know this is so true, deleterious consequences should Secretary Clinton win this election. In other words, we're going to be tied up in court for the rest of our lives with this deal. She's not going to win the election. But I'm just saying.If Hillary is elected. She would be under protracted criminal investigation, likely followed by the trial of a sitting president. This is just, hey, this is just what we need. Just what we need. And let me tell you folks, let me tell you the way life is. They just found the 650,000 emails. One email, one email being classified or confidential, one out of 650,000, I guarantee you there are many. Many of the emails that were missing are in there. Thank you Huma. Thank you Huma.Do you think right now that Hillary Clinton is happy with the services of Huma? I don't think so. I don't think she likes Huma. And I never thought we'd be saying thank you to Anthony Weiner. Never.Thank you Anthony. I never liked you Anthony. I never liked you but thank you very much. And I don't know. They don't give me much credit. But it's called good judgment. Do you notice I've been calling Anthony Weiner for the last year? And I've been saying. You can't allow somebody so close to the seat of power to be in anyway associated with this guy. And you know what the press said, how dare you say that. That's such a horrible -- -- give me a break. Now they're all saying. He was right. But most of them don't want to write it.The investigation will last for years. Nothing will get done. Government will grind to a halt. And our country will continue to suffer. Hillary's corruption is a threat to democracy. And the only way to stop it is for you, on November 8th, to show up at the polls and vote. We'll stop it fast.And you know what folks? We have a movement the likes they've never seen in this country. All of these dishonest people back there. They even say it. It's the greatest such event. I mean they say, they say, Bill O'Reilly said. They all say, it's the single greatest political phenomomena, Bill O'Reilly said, in his life. Now he's a tough guy. He's a smart guy. But it's the single greatest political phenomena in his life. And others have said the same thing. Even people who hate me have said the same thing. And by the way, just a little bit of news. You know you've been seeing polls. So we're winning almost everywhere.And the reason I'm here, you know a Republican hasn't won in 35 years or something in the state of Michigan. But remember this, I've been with you for 2 years. I've been making speeches in Michigan for two years. And you know, outside, we have more people, this place is packed. Right? Look at the door. Outside, thank you to the fire marshal by the way, he was great. But outside, we have more people than we have inside. There's thousands of people outside.But, I've been talking to the people of Michigan for two years. I've been saying it for five or six years. But I've been making speeches up here for two years, about your automobile industry, and other industries. But in particular, your automobile industry being sucked into Mexico.You know Ford just announced their big withdraw. They're going to make all their smaller cars in Mexico. They, that's on top of a plant that they just finished, $2.5 billion plant they just finished.Folks, I've been talking about this problem for years. She comes up, I've been talking about it for many years. It's been happening for many years. But I've been talking about it for years. But I've been making, who has been like at my speeches over the last couple of years up in Michigan?Is that right? I'm telling you. And you know, I'll tell you again. Right now, as we're here, you have the leaders of companies negotiating right this second to make deals to move out into Mexico and other countries.And if I win, they can forget it. Those deals aren't worth the paper they're written on.So we had some great polls. Now Michigan hasn't been, what is it like 35 years or something like that. No Republican has won since like Reagan, or something, many years ago. And I said, I love Michigan. And I saw numbers. No. No. I also said look, I'm the one, like I predicted Huma. I predicted take the oil. I predicted a lot of things. You've been seeing it.Hillary has bad judgment and bad instincts. How about this guy Podesta? Podesta, he's a nasty guy. Every thing he says about Hillary is so bad. He said she has terrible instincts. But we have good instincts.But she doesn't have a clue. She's not bringing anything back. She's the one that let them go. Her and the group, they let them go. You know, during the debate, did I win the debates by the way? Won the debates easily. But during the debates, she'd say, I'm going to get ISIS. I'm going to this, I'm going to that. I'm -- -- I kept saying, why did you do it? Donald Trump used the tax code to his advantage. So change it. Why didn't you change it? Why didn't you change, change it? Right? Change it. Change the tax code.But she wouldn't do that, because all of her rich guys that are supporting her, they're no different than me. They do the same thing. So she's not going to change anything. You know it's called a politician. All talk, no action. So what happens, I get this poll and it says we're doing well in Michigan. Well, not for me well, but for all the geniuses that work for me. They said, oh well you're even in Michigan. So I say, let's go to Michigan. We just left, we just left another place. I said let's go and win it.Because I will bring your jobs back. And I will keep companies from leaving Michigan, firing the workers, opening plants in Mexico and other places. And if they do, like in Indiana, Carrier Air Conditioning. You have Ford here. You have so -- -- I could name -- -- I could name companies all day long. Right? We lost 70,000 factories since, essentially NAFTA. Who would believe 70,000? But here's the story, if they want to leave your great state. If Carrier as an example, is going to leave Indianapolis, Indiana.If you're going to lose your car companies. And you're going to lose them. Believe me. You're going to lose them. You're losing them as we speak. I'm going to tell them very simply. Here's the story. Enjoy Mexico. A little hot. I like the people. I met with the President a few months ago. Good guy. But if you think you're going to fire all your workers in Michigan. You're going to open up a car plant in Mexico. Nice new factory, good luck. And then you're going to make cars and you're going to across, what will be a very, very strong powerful border, believe me.I'm going to tell them. I'm going to tell them. There will be consequences. There will be consequences. (BUILD THAT WALL. BUILD THAT WALL. BUILD THAT WALL.)Thank you. By the way, I'm going to talk about the wall a little later. But just to keep you not in suspense, we will build -- build the wall. Mexico will pay for the wall. Believe me. 100 percent. So I thought I'd come here and they all said, don't do that, 32 years, 35. I said, I'm going to win Michigan. I'm telling you. I'm the only one that's going to bring their business back. I'm the only one that's going to get rid of all these ridiculous regulations. I'm the only one that's cutting taxes. She's raising taxes. And in all fairness to the companies, they're fleeing because of taxes. We're the highest taxed country in the world. I said, I'm going to win Michigan. So, let's see what happens. Let's see what happens.Now, on a nationwide basis, we're winning nationally. We're winning in Ohio. We're winning in Iowa. We're winning in North Carolina. That one just came in.We're winning big in Florida. We're winning by four points in Florida.You know, they give you phony polls folks. Phony polls. So I've been hearing about Texas. Texas and I, we have a great relationship. But they're saying, Texas is close. Texas, so the other day, I'm watching one of the networks, and a guy calls in, great guy, Sid Miller. I don't know Sid Miller. Got a big cowboy hat on, great guy. Big white cowboy hat, I said, where did you get that hat? And he calls in, he goes, you know I don't know what you people are talking about. But I'm from Texas. And we have more voting than I've ever seen in my life, early voting. He said, they're coming from all over the state. We've never seen some of them before. They haven't voted in 20 years. Some of them haven't even voted at all. And they've got Trump stickers on them and shirts and hats. And he said, -- --- -- now you're saying it's close in Texas. But you're a bunch of liars. It's not close. This is a total wipeout in Texas. And that's what I -- -- that's what I thought.And by the way, the same exact thing is happening in the great state of Florida. Florida, they have lines that are four blocks long. If you went there four years ago, there were like two people waiting to vote, and they're falling asleep. They have lines that are four and five blocks long. I passed one two days ago. I was in Florida. And I said, what's going on over there? I thought it was like a concert. It's people waiting for hours and hours to vote. So there's a great thing happening in our country folks.It's called common sense. It's called build up our depleted military. We need it so badly now.It's called save our 2nd Amendment.When we close the chapter on the Clintons, we can open a bright new chapter focused on the American people. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to restore honesty and accountability to government. Have to have it.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words that we, not me, that we have to say. When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. And we are going to drain the swamp.Drain the swamp. You know I told a couple of groups that -- -- that started like a week ago. I hated it. It sounded so hokey. Drain the swamp. You have to be kidding. Drain the swamp. So I said, you know what, maybe I'll try it. So I was with a big, big group, a tremendous group of people, actually in New Hampshire. And I said, drain the swamp, the place went crazy. So I liked it a little better. Then I did it again and again. And now everyone's screaming when are we draining the swamp. What are we -- -- and I tell the story. I knew Frank Sinatra.(DRAIN THE SWAMP. DRAIN THE SWAMP. DRAIN THE SWAMP.)Frank Sinatra had "My Way". Didn't like it. Didn't like it. Then he sang it. People loved it. He sang it again, people loved it. Then it goes out and becomes a number one song all of a sudden he loved it. That's with me, drain the swamp. I love it. Well it's very descriptive. Because it is. It's a dirty, rotten, stinking swamp. WikiLeaks, and this you just saw. WikiLeaks also just released an email with Bill Clinton's chief of staff, telling John Podesta, foreign government donors dash all the money is in.That should be, you know what? That should be our next phrase. All the money is in. All the money -- -- this is from foreign governments. He doesn't mean taxes. He means the money going into their bank accounts. All the money is in. That's pretty good. I like that one. All the money is in. So that was just another one of WikiLeaks. And I'll tell you what. But they are nasty to Hillary. You know, for a person that's supposed to be a leader, she's not a leader. But boy do they speak badly, every one of her people. Their judgment. She's got nothing going. Hillary Clinton put the office of Secretary of State up for sale. And if she ever got the chance, she would put the Oval office up for sale too.My ethics reform plan includes a pledge to get foreign money out of American politics. Going to have to do it.Why do you think they're making all these incredible deals in China and Mexico and all these countries? Why do you think? Do you think because the politicians are that stupid? Some of them are. But do you want to know? They have total control over our politicians. We have to get the money, foreign money out of our politicians pockets. My contract also includes a lifetime ban on government officials becoming lobbyists for foreign government. That includes a ban on former White House officials, lobbying on behalf of a foreign government during trade negotiations.You know when you look at these horrible trade deals. They're not that stupid. I'm telling you. These are just bad deals. Because the other side, the side they're negotiating with is taking care of them folks. You know what? Look, I was on the other side. In case you haven't heard, I spent a long time on the other side. But I love this country so much. And I saw what was happening. And the day I announced on June 16th of last year, boy did I become an outsider. I think I became the all time, the all time outsider. And I'm very glad I did it. Because this is something again, this is something that has never, ever happened before or never close. And we're going to carry it home on November 8th.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back your jobs. Nobody even talks about that. You don't have politicians talking about that. Michigan has lost one in four manufacturing jobs since Bill Clinton signed NAFTA. You know it was Bill Clinton that signed that. A lot of people don't know that. A deal strongly supported by Crooked Hillary. Before NAFTA went into effect, there were 280,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today that number is down to less than 160,000 workers and it's going down fast. Under NAFTA, we eliminated our tariffs on Mexico. But Mexico raised their vat on us. It's a vat tax. A lot of people don't know what that means. It's now around 17 percent. So when we send products to Mexico, we pay a 17 percent tax, we don't even know it. In other words, when they signed the original agreement, it was defective. So instead of changing it, they don't change it. It was defective. We're changing it. We're going to probably terminate it and start all over again if you want to know the truth.It's got to be a two way road. You know a two lane highway. Back and forth. Right now it's a one way highway right into their pockets. But when they ship products to us they can send them tax free. You understand that? It's defective because we have two different tax arrangements. So you have the vat and ours is ours. It's a 17, approximately 17 percent. So the agreement was defective when we made the agreement. Everybody knew it and nobody changed it. And that's why you don't see the stuff coming the other way. It's a one way highway. They get the jobs. They get the money. They get the factory. We get the drugs. We get the unemployment. We get the losses.Somehow -- -- somehow that's not too good. America's running, America's running a nearly $800 billion annual trade deficit. In other words, our great negotiators, we're losing in the trade deficit $800 billion almost a year. We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. True. It's the greatest job theft. You look at New England. You look at Michigan. You're one of the greats. You look at North Carolina. You look at all of our states. Some are effected incredibly. He just shouted out Ohio. Ohio's lost tremendous numbers of great jobs. You look at what's going on in Cleveland, Ohio, where we had an unbelievable convention by the way.But you look at what's going on in Cleveland, Ohio. Company after company leaving. Our trade deficit with China grew almost 40 percent during Hillary's tenure as Secretary of State. Her trade deal with South Korea, her baby, killed another 100,000 American jobs. She said, oh come on.He's a great one. 900 wins. Thank you Bobby. That's true about the military. And it's true about the veterans. We're going to take care of your veterans. Hillary got rich selling your jobs to same special interests who pushed the jobs out of America. The people who have given her countless millions of dollars in campaign contributions. You know in Florida, it's 50 to one they say, commercials. 50 to one, and I'm winning. You know, in the old days, in the old days, you'd get credit if you spent less money and you won. Today they're saying, why isn't Trump spending more money? 50 to one, I'll have over $100 million of my money in this whole campaign. Which means I don't have to take it from others. But think of it.50 to one. She raised, I don't know, $1.5 billion, something like that. And we're winning folks. We're winning. Can you believe this? 50 to one. I was down in Florida a couple of days ago. I was begging for an Ivory soap commercial, anything. Because every commercial was about Trump, negative. And by the way, really negative, nasty commercial. And they were so untrue, most of them. Most of them. No, they were untrue. But just look at the devastation, your area, 3,637 workers right here in Michigan. Most of those jobs went to Mexico. Leo Interiors laid off 320 Americans making automobile interiors. Their jobs went to Mexico, congratulations.Benteler Automotive laid off 233 Americans and sent those jobs to Mexico. Steel Case also laid off 870 workers, those jobs went to Mexico and Malaysia. Autodye, once the biggest tool and dye maker in the United States, one of the biggest in the world, laid off 300 workers, getting smaller all the time. The sheet metal parts and dyes they used to make right here. They used to make them right here, now come from China, South Korea and Taiwan.Ford laid off 2,155 workers. Those jobs went to various countries. But they're going to be going to Mexico more and more and more. Ford is moving all of its small car production, that's a big deal, to Mexico. And that's on top of the two and a half, you know the plant they built right? They built this massive plant. They built a plant that you wouldn't believe in Mexico. That's on top of it. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and will stop the jobs from leaving Michigan. And I've been saying that for a long time.If Ford or another company announces they want to move their jobs to Mexico or another country, then I will pick up the phone, even though it's not very presidential for me to be calling a head of a company, but it's so easy. I will call the executives, or I'll have Carl Icon do it, or I'll have, we have so much incredible at the top business people in the world some of them. And I will tell them. I have Bobby Knight. I'll have Bobby Knight make the call. I'll have Bobby Knight. I think he could make the call better than anybody. 900 wins Bobby. He's amazing. I'll have Bobby -- -- would Bobby do a good job? I think so. I will tell them that if they want to do that. They want to move all those, you know, people out of there. They're going to be unemployed now. And you want to hire other people from another country, we will charge a 35 percent tax when they try to ship their products back across what will be a very strong border.It used to be the cars were made, you remember this right? Do you remember this? You're right. You've heard this. I love it. It used to be the cars were made in Flint. And you couldn't drink the water in Mexico. Right? Now the cars are made in Mexico and you can't drink the water in Flint.But we're going to turn it all around. I was in Flint recently. That is a troubled place I want to tell you.Yet as the people of Detroit suffer, Hillary wants to spend trillions of dollars toward government --They don't even talk about monetary manipulations in this agreement. Which is the single greatest tool that foreign countries have for beating us. Right? They don't even talk about it. It's not even mentioned. The TPP will destroy the rest of your industry. It will take what NAFTA hasn't destroyed. A Trump administration will stop the Transpacific Partnership. And we're going to have trade.And we're going to have trade. But it's going to be one, two, three, we're going to have individual deals with individual countries. And if they misbehave, we send them what's called a notice of termination. 30 days. And during that 30 day period, they'll most likely be desperate to keep it going and will make a better deal than we had. But we have to be smart. Right now, it's complex. It's many countries. It's a 5,000 page agreement. That nobody from our country has read. And these every countries, they know every comma, every period, every paragraph, every sentence. They study at night and our people probably barely read it. We will renegotiate NAFTA. And if we don't get the deal we want we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal.We are going to lower taxes on America business from 35 percent to 15 percent. We are going to massively cut taxes for the middle class. We will unleash American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal. We will put our miners back to work by the way.And as you know, China's dumping steel all over the place. We are going to put our steel workers back to work. Going to end that. The Obama-Clinton war on coal is going to cost this state 50,000 jobs. Not if I'm elected. We'll increase the number of jobs by a massive amount. We will also work to restore and protect the Great Lakes.We are going to become a rich and proud country again. But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming to our shores.Hillary Clinton's immigration plans mean generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism, spreading into your schools and communities all over Michigan. When we win, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Believe me.And folks we all have heart. And we see what's going on and it's tragic. And we'll help them with safe zones in Syria. We'll get the Gulf states to pay for it. We don't have the money. We owe $20 trillion. But they have plenty of money and they haven't been stepping up. They'll step up. But we're going to help them with safe zones and other things. But we can't do it. We can, we don't want to have a modern day version of the Trojan horse. And that's what's going to happen. You see what's going on. Just take a look at Germany. Just take a look at France, Paris, and Nice. Just take a look all over the world. Just take a look. We have enough problems. A Trump administration will also secure, defend the borders of the United States. And yes, as I said, we will build a wall.We received the first ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers. These are amazing people. Who frankly have a much easier job if I don't win. Because the people just walk right in. But these are great Americans. They're devastated. They see what's happening. They see who's coming in. And they say, we are going to give Donald Trump the first ever endorsement. They've never endorsed anybody before. They tell us the border crisis is the worst it's ever been. It's a national tragedy and a national emergency. They said that.They also warn America has a horrible situation in store. It's the most radical proposal in U.S. history, according to a letter they just sent me with their endorsement. Most radical proposal in U.S. history. When I become president, we will end illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens and put American workers first.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester. Which took all of our military out of, I mean the military, what's happening to our military? You know, we have planes, fighter jets that are so old, current fighter jets, that we can't buy parts for these planes. We have to get them from airplane graveyards and from museums. We will rebuild our badly depleted military and take care of our wonderful, wonderful people in the military.That means new modern aircraft for Selfridge. Does anyone know Selfridge, Air National Guard base. We have the endorsement of 22 medal of honor recipients and more than 200 admirals and generals.That's a great honor. Not only General Flynn who's a phenomenal man. Do we all love General Flynn? Tough. Tough and smart. We want tough and we want smart. He's both. We need a new foreign policy that puts America First. Hillary led us into the disaster in Iraq and Syria and Libya. She couldn't get us out of Iraq and ISIS was formed in the vacuum. Now I listen to her say, we will fight ISIS. Where was she when it was forming? Now ISIS is in 32 countries. She's an unstable person and she's totally trigger happy. No Secretary of State has been wrong more times, in more places, than Hillary Clinton. She unleashed ISIS and now wants open borders in the Middle East. Now think of it, she wants the Middle East to pour into our country. She wants everybody, come on in. Folks, she wants open borders. Let me just tell you, let me tell you, we have open borders in this country, we're not going to have a country anymore. And all you have to do is take a look at her record. Look what she's going through now. What a mess. Her policies spread death, destruction and terrorism wherever she's gone.(LOCK HER UP. LOCK HER UP. LOCK HER UP.)Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East and not it's in worst shape than ever before. Right? If our President's went away and went to the beach, we'd be in a lot better shape than we are right now. Think of it. We spent $6 trillion. We could have rebuilt our country two times over. Imagine of some of that money had been spent on building new schools, roads, bridges, tunnels right here in Michigan. Now she wants to start a shooting war in Syria, in conflict with a nuclear armed Russia. That could, look, this could possibly drag us into World War II. Putin has no respect for her. He doesn't like her. He certainly doesn't like Obama. And I often say, wouldn't it be nice if we actually got along with Russia and these other countries. Wouldn't that be a positive thing?They act like it's going to be a terrible thing if that ever happened. The arrogant political class never learns. They keep repeating the same mistakes. They keep telling the same lies. They keep producing the same failed results. We don't win anymore folks. We don't win at war. We don't win with trade. We don't win with education, our system is horrible. You look at our educational process. Look at our system. We're last, so you have 30 countries that they judge. We are at the bottom of the list. We're number one in cost per pupil. But you have Sweden, and Norway and Denmark, and Japan, and China, and way down on the list is the United States. And you know what? Number one, number one in cost per pupil by far. How can Hillary manage this country when she can't even manage her email?(LOCK HER UP. LOCK HER UP. LOCK HER UP.)It's just one disaster after another. One scandal after another. One total betrayal after another. To all Americans I say, it is time for real leadership. We have to have it.And just in finishing up, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. Get ready for your jobs to start pouring back by the way. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. She's going to raise taxes. Hillary is going to raise your taxes to almost 50 percent by the way.We are going to rebuild our military. And we are going to take care of our great, great, great veterans. Great people. Provide school choice to the children of Michigan and put an end to common core for once and for all. We'll bring education local.Make childcare more affordable. Support the men and women of law enforcement.We're going to save our 2nd Amendment which is under siege. The NRA gave me their earliest endorsement ever, the National Rifle Association. They're great people. I tell you what, they love this country. And we're going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can't change. And wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C. I'm asking you to dream big. To push for bold change. And to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love for this country.I'm tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day, when they really mean another decade. America is tired of waiting. The moment is now. You're never, ever going to have this change again folks. Not in four years. Not in eight years. Not ever again. This is it. Never going to have it again.Thank you. Thank you. All we have to do is stop believing in our failed politicians and start believing in each other and in our country. There is no challenge too great. No dream outside of our reach. Nothing. Nothing is outside of our reach. I tell you what, I've gotten to know the people of this country. I've been doing this for a long time. If you would have told me I was going to be a politician, I would have laughed. I would have laughed. I also would have behaved perhaps a little bit differently, but that's OK. Would have behaved a little bit differently.Don't let anyone tell you it can't be done. The future relies with the dreamers, not the cynics, not the critics. Hillary has been there for 30 years and she's accomplished nothing. Everything she does works out badly. Just look at what's happening right now. She is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future. That's what's happening.Our movement represents all Americans, from all backgrounds and all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and first time voters of which there are many.We are asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice, not money and power, should rule the day. We are fighting for every citizen who believes the government should serve the people, not the donors, and not the special interests. We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future. With your vote, in just eight days, can you believe it? Eight days.We will get the change that you've been waiting for your entire life. This will be a day you will remember. And when you cast your vote on November 8th, that will be the most important vote you will ever cast.That will be when our country started winning again. We will get rid of ISIS. And we will get rid of ISIS swiftly. We will be tough. But we have to get rid of ISIS. But we will build, we will build peace through strength. We are not a respected country. We are scoffed at and laughed at all over the world. We give $1.7 billion in cash.We give Iran back $150 billion and instead of being thankful, they feel embolden and they embarrass us with the 10 sailors. And they embarrass us with the ships. And they embarrass us in every way possible. This kind of stuff isn't going to happen anymore. Not going to happen anymore.Last month, you read they had 800 people, tough ones, ready for deportation and they made a mistake. Instead of deporting them, they became United States citizens.To which I said, that's OK. That's OK. Call them up. Let them redo it. They can change it. And the people on the other end said, well that wouldn't be Constitutional.And the mistake was that it really wasn't 800 people. It turned out to be 1,800 people.It's not going to be that way. We're going to have a unified country. We're a totally divide country. We're a divide country. We're going to have a country of love. We're going to get along, like this room gets along. We're going to get along. You're going to be proud of your country again. You are going to be so proud of your country again. And your country is going to start to win again. And your country is going to be respected again.Your going to respect your country. And hopefully, you're going to look at your president someday, and you're going to say, that was a great vote. He did a great job for us.Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you everybody. God bless you. God bless you Michigan. God bless you. Get out and vote. Thank you.Thank you very much. Thank you.I would like to thank my incredible running mate, Governor Mike Pence. Thank you.And I love you, too.We have a lot of very enthused and excited people in this campaign. So I really do thank all of you.I would like to thank my incredible running mate, Mike Pence, on the tremendous job he's done. And he's a fantastic leader and a leader on health care issues, and to have him involved is just my very great honor, believe me.I'd also like to thank Dr. Ben Carson.Not only a great man, and I don't say that about a lot of people, but one of the toughest competitors I've ever faced. People don't know how well he did during those primaries. And I just kept looking back. And I just kept seeing him. And boy, I'll tell you.But even more importantly, he's a brilliant physician and I hope he will be very much involved with my administration in the coming years.Thank you.I'd also like to recognize the distinguished members of Congress in attendance who have all been at the forefront of health care, and have been so helpful to me: Congresswoman Ellmers, Lummis; Congressmen Price, Harris, Burgess and DesJarlais.And let me give a special thanks to Senator Barrasso, a terrific doctor, a Senate leader, who did incredible work chairing our platform committee, just unbelievable work. So I want to thank you very much, Senator. Fantastic job.And been very, very loyal to what we're doing and what we represent. So thank you, Senator. When we win on November 8th...... and elect a Republican Congress, we will be able to immediately repeal and replace Obamacare. Have to do it.I will ask Congress to convene a special session so we can repeal and replace and it will be such an honor for me, for you and for everybody in this country because Obamacare has to be replaced. And we will do it and we will do it very, very quickly. It is a catastrophe. The president said if you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor.Which may go down as one of the great political lies of the century. Even the skeptical Democrats believed him and approved the legislation. There were Democrats that were very much against it, but they believed him and they approved it. No one ever read, or certainly very few people, the 2,700 page bill. To this day, nobody understands it.The Obama administration has just announced massive double digit and triple digit Obamacare premium hikes everywhere, all throughout the country. Here in Pennsylvania, premiums are going to increase more than 60 percent and that's nothing compared to what will happen in the future. Of course, in the future, I'm president, there won't be Obamacare, so you won't have to worry about it.That means parents won't have enough money to pay their bills or get medicine for their kids. In the great state of Arizona, a wonderful place I just left, premiums will go up even higher than 116 percent. Other states are going up more than 60, 70, 80, 90 percent. Deductibles can go to $12,000, $13,000, $14,000, even $15,000. In other words, your health care won't even be usable. You're paying all this money, you won't even get to use it.People all across the country are devastated. In many instances, their health care costs are more than their mortgage costs or their rent which, by the way, is a first in American history. This is particularly unfair to millennials and younger Americans generally who will be totally crushed by these massive health care costs before they even get started on their journey through life.One-third of the counties -- think of this, one-third of the counties in Pennsylvania will have only a single insurance company left if you have that. That includes Philadelphia, where I went to school. The Associated Press found that some of the 440,000 Pennsylvania consumers who buy insurance through healthcare.gov will face some of the highest premium increases in the nation. The people of Philadelphia. Insurers are leaving, premiums are soaring, doctors are quitting, companies are fleeing and deductibles go through the roof. Workers' hours are being cut, hiring is frozen -- totally frozen -- and wages are being slashed. Obamacare means higher prices, fewer choices and lower quality. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to expand Obamacare and make it even more expensive. She wants to put the government totally in charge of health care in America. If we don't repeal and replace Obamacare, we will destroy American health care forever.It's one of the single most important reasons why we must win on November 8th, we must win.Thank you.Thank you.Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.Our replacement plan includes health savings accounts, a nationwide insurance market where you can purchase across state lines and letting states manage Medicaid dollars so much better. We will create quality, reliable, affordable health care in a free market where parents can make the health care decisions that they really wanna make for their families. It will be a much better health care at a much less expensive cost.We've also outlined detailed solutions on so many other issues to make life better for every American family. And while this is really -- thank you.While this is really a meeting and that's what it is, it's a meeting of very, very special people and I appreciate you all being here. But it's a meeting talking about health care and Obamacare. Our plan for other things also include the bringing back of manufacturing jobs. We have to do it.Our jobs are being stolen. Pennsylvania has lost almost 40 percent of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton. The city of Philadelphia has lost more than one-third of its manufacturing jobs since China joined the Word Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster.A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA, believe me. And we have the greatest negotiators in the world. We will use our great negotiators.We'll have a fair deal, but we'll have a deal that goes in two directions, not one direction, right into Mexico and these other places.And stand up to foreign product dumping, currency manipulation and unfair subsidy behavior.We are going to bring manufacturing jobs, lots of jobs, back to Pennsylvania. We're gonna do it. And it won't even be difficult.We're going to open modern mines and take care of our great miners. Our miners have been mistreated horribly.We will be producing clean coal, oil, natural gas and shale energy.We're also bringing back our steel workers who have been so badly hurt, so badly hurt.Whose jobs have been stolen by the dumping of steel all over the state, and frankly, all over this country, by China and other countries. Nobody has been treated worse than these workers, but that will change on January 20th of next year, believe me. It will change.We're also going to provide the children of the state with school choice. So important.That means parents can spend and take care of their children, but they can send their kids to public school, to private, to chartered, to magnet, to religious or to home school. It's going to be their right and it's going to be something that's so, so good for your children and for the education of your children.We will also totally eliminate Common Core and bring education local. We're gonna bring it local.People do not like Common Core in this country, that I can tell you.And our system is failing, so it's obviously not working. We're gonna eliminate Common Core, we're gonna bring it local.Our tax plan will provide a 35 percent tax cut to middle class families with two kids. As an example, you have two kids, a 35 percent cut so desperately needed. Our middle class has not been properly respected, that I can tell you.We will let parents deduct childcare expenses from their taxes and create tax-free childcare and elder care savings accounts with matching contributions for low income families.We will eliminate the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. When did we ever need it more? Greatest people on Earth in our military, but it's badly depleted.Thank you. People love this country, don't they? Isn't it beautiful, right? Beautiful.It's a beautiful thing to watch and see. And I see it all over the country, no matter where we go. And every time I say we are going to rebuild our depleted military, it's always the same response. It's an incredible response.Our Navy is the smallest it's been since World War I, think of that. Smallest since World War I. And rebuilding it will require a national effort. That's why I will ask my Secretary of the Navy to review facilities like the Philadelphia Navy Yard, I know it well.With a long history of service to our Navy, proximity to vibrant private industry and room for expansion to enlist them in the rebuilding of what will be a great fleet again.To recruit master craftsman this buildup requires and we will establish centers of excellence at locations like the Philadelphia Navy Yard.Vocational training is a great thing. We don't do it anymore. We don't do it anymore.And I must tell you, so often in going to college right down the road and going to college, we have people that were brilliant and we had other people that weren't as brilliant in that way but were brilliant, incredible when it came to fixing a motor, when it came to fixing something that I had no idea what was happening and other great geniuses had no idea what was happening and they could take it apart blindfolded. And we don't do that anymore. Vocational training for our country is so, so, so important.And just in closing -- and they loved it. They loved it. They didn't want to be doing what I was doing. They loved it. They were so good at it and they loved it. So vocational training, we're going to start it up big league.We will rebuild our military and we will rebuild our country. I'm not a politician. My only special interest is you, the American people. That's why I've done this.Thank you very much.The guiding rule of the political class in Washington, D.C. is that they are looking out only for themselves, only for themselves with the exception of these few people.I feel guilty as I'm looking, they're staring me in the eyes. So I have to say with these exceptions. They will say anything and do anything and cling to their power and prestige at your expense. I'm running to change and reverse decades of failure and to work with the American people to create generations of success. I'm running...I'm running to restore honesty to our government and safety to our communities. We need safety. And by the way, our law enforcement officials, these are great, great people.Thank you. And we are going to give great prosperity to our economy. I want to go into our poorest communities and work on a national plan of revitalization, the inner cities.And I've been working with so many African-American groups. These are such incredible people. We've been talking about it, working on it. We're going to bring jobs into the inner cities. We're going to bring safety. We're going to bring education, good, good schools into the inner cities.The spirit of the people in the inner cities is beyond the spirit of anybody. And it's gonna work. It's gonna work. You watch. Americans are tired of being told to defer their dreams to another day. But politicians for the most part really mean another decade, because that's what they're talking about. Enough waiting. Time is now.But to accomplish our goals, we must cut our ties with the small bitter, petty politics of the past. We must declare our independence from a failed establishment that has squandered $6 trillion on foreign wars in the Middle East that never end, that we never win and that have made us far less safe. Think of it.Think of all the money that's spent, all the lives that have been lost. And we're far less safe today than we were before we started. They've left our borders wide open at home and shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.It's time for new leadership.I've led a great life and I truly love our country. So now I want to give back to the country that's been so good to me, that's why I'm doing this.All I see everywhere I travel in this nation, and I've been everywhere, is untapped potential waiting to be realized. The people are amazing, the people are amazing. If we unlock the potential of this country and its incredible people, no dream is outside of our reach.If we stopped believing in our failed politicians and start believing in ourselves, then anything, anything is possible.I'm asking you to dream big, to push for bold change and to believe in a movement powered by our love for each other and our love for our country.That is how we will truly make America great again.Thank you very much, thank you everybody. God bless you, thank you.Thank you very much. Great people, great state. Thank you everybody.So we have thousands of people outside, but rather than wait, let's get started, right?We have almost 4,000 people. They're going to be coming in as we speak, but I think we get going right now. Is that correct? They are being checked out.I want to begin by thanking the great Wisconsin leaders who are here with us today. Chairman Reince Priebus who gave a very inspirational speech. Senator Ron Johnson, I hope you all going to get out and vote for Ron.We're going to...We're going to repeal and replace Obamacare.A great athlete, people don't know that, great athlete and a wonderful guy. He's been with me right from the beginning, Congressman Sean Duffy...... and your party chairman who's done an incredible job, we all know Brad Courtney. Thank you, Brad. Thank you.Thank you, everybody.A special thank you to Governor Scott Walker...... who has done a fantastic job in Wisconsin. I want to tell you I ran against him. He is tough, he is brutal. I want to be very respectful, he is one tough cookie.So, to Governor Walker, I want to thank you. Tremendous, tremendous competitor...... and we're with him forever. Thank you, Scott. Thank you.Most importantly, I want to thank all of you here in attendance today and everyone who is part of this magnificent movement to make America great again. That is what we're going to do.In just one week, we are going to win the great state of Wisconsin.And we are going to win back the White House. It's going to happen folks. A lot of good polls out there today. We just got one; we're seven up in North Carolina.Seven up, North Carolina. We're way ahead in Florida, way ahead in Ohio, wow. We're doing great, Ohio and Florida, we're doing great. Iowa, way up in Iowa. We're getting tremendous help from Governor Branstad. We're sort of way up everywhere. You know, they were saying Texas is going to be close. It looks like Texas is in play. Guess what? Total blowout. We love Texas.We love Texas. We're way up in Georgia, that was another one that said it looks like Georgia might be in play. Guess what? We're way up. So, that's the way it is.I also want to thank some of our great people that were here tonight, Mayor Giuliani who is incredible and he's been so loyal.And how about Coach Bobby Knight? He did pretty well against you, folks, but we still respect. We want winners, right? We're on the cusp of something incredible -- historic change that transfers power from a failed political establishment and returns that power to our families, communities, and citizens. It's going to happen.Real change that begins with immediately, repealing and replacing Obamacare, a total disaster, total disaster.It's just been announced that the residents of Wisconsin -- congratulations -- are going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike. You know that, right?I'm not going to tell you what it is because I want you to leave here happy. I don't want you to be depressed, but don't worry about it. We're going to get rid of it so you're not going to have to worry about it.In the great state of Arizona, premiums are going up more than 116 percent. They're not too happy.Wow. Wow.Great, great. That's so nice. Look at that man, and you look fantastic. He says, "Minnesota Cancer Patient for Trump." You're going to get better, OK? You're going to get better. You're going to get better fast. You look beautiful. That's cool.And you know, we just had news that in Minnesota we are doing fantastically well. I didn't know we'll have so many people.That's great. We're going to do our job for it. The premium increase will be close to 60 percent -- you know that -- 60 percent in Minnesota and a lot higher following, so that's pretty bad.The Democratic governor has just said the Affordable Care Act in Minnesota is no longer affordable. Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are leaving, and deductibles are through the roof. Other than that it's a wonderful thing. Many Americans are now paying more for health care than for their mortgages or their rent -- a first in the history of America, first time that's ever happened.Obamacare is a disaster. It's a -- it's a total catastrophe, yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive and it's still won't work.I'm asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Wisconsin and for every family in our country.Real change...Thank you, everybody. That's so nice. You know, this is a movement like has never been seen in this country before.And if I said that and if it weren't so, those extremely dishonest people, the media, the world's most...... dishonest people, horrible people, untruthful people. They would be saying, he said this, he said that, he said this. Let me tell you they are extremely dishonest, and yet we are leading with all of the dishonesty. We're leading and I think we're leading big. And I think on November 8th it will even be bigger.Real change also means restoring honesty to our government. As you know, the FBI has reopened its investigation into Hillary Clinton.This is the biggest scandal since Watergate. And now it's been reported that there are FBI inquiries probing virtually all of Hillary Clinton's inner circle.She wants to blame everyone else...You know, somehow I think that Obamacare is not going to be her biggest problem. Does that make sense?She wants to blame everyone else for her mounting legal troubles, but she has really no one else to blame but herself. Hillary is the one who set-up an illegal, private email server to shield her criminal activity. You know that, she knows it. Hillary is the one who engaged in a corrupt pay-to-play scheme at the State Department. Hillary is the one endangered national security by sending classified information on an insecure server.Hillary is the one who lied so many times to Congress and to the FBI -- 39 times to the FBI, and each lie -- I mean, each time she said -- remember she does -- right, she said, sorry, I don't recall. I don't recall, 39 times. Well, each time she said that, that was also a lie, and I'm not even including that.Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer. It was Hillary who destroyed 33,000 emails after receiving a subpoena from the United States Congress...... after. And she is also the one -- this just came up recently. By the way, if that were Reince or me or somebody, it would have been the biggest story in the world. She also accepted debate questions given to her in advance and then used them to cheat against Bernie Sanders...... instead of reporting this terrible -- say terrible breach, right? Instead of reporting this terrible breach of ethics to the public or to somebody. She used it. You notice they keep talking about Donna Brazile, Donna Brazile. Well, Donna Brazile cheated. And frankly, she should resign from the DNC.She was just fired from the networks. She should now resign from DNC. Think of that. Can you imagine if Reince got the questions for a debate, gave them to me and they found out, you know what it would be, a double electric chair, right?It would be on the front page in the "New York Times, " the "Washington Post." It's hardly covered, can you believe it? She got -- I mean, to me, it's such a breach, you know, being a student, being a believer in so many different things -- to me, it's such a breach. She got the questions and didn't report. Nobody even talks about that. They talk about Donna Brazile, but they don't talk about Hillary.Hillary got the questions in a debate against Bernie Sanders and she didn't report it.Surreal cheating, and it was hardly covered. But we know the answer, so get out and vote on November 8th. Remember?Hillary is not the victim. The American people are the victims of this rigged and corrupt system in every way. And this is your one chance to change it -- it's your one chance. I don't think you're going to have another chance, folks. We have an election coming up. You're not going to have another chance. In four years, you can forget it.If she were to be elected, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis, and the work of government would grind to an unbelievably unglorious halt. She is likely to be under investigation for many years, probably concluding in a very large-scale criminal trial.In a newly released email, John Podesta has been caught saying, "We have to dump all of those emails." Can you believe this? That's WikiLeaks.And he also said, to me it has made a big -- a big statement, John Podesta -- I'll tell you what, if he worked for me, I would fire him so fast. He is such a nasty guy.He would -- I would fire him like the Apprentice, "John, you're fired."Amazing. Nasty guy, he's a nasty guy.He's a nasty guy. But he said, you know, you don't like to say bad things, you work for people. He said, Hillary has bad instincts. Bernie Sanders said, She has bad judgment. She's got both. They're pretty similar when you think about it.As it also turns out, one of the top Department of Justice officials, the Assistant Attorney General is a close associate of Podesta. The two met for dinner after Clinton testified about Benghazi, and Podesta described him as the man who kept him out of jail, works for the Justice Department.Has our country ever had a situation like it is going on right now? Have we ever had anything like it?This is a good time to make an important public service announcement because a lot of things have happened over the last few days. This is a message for any Democratic voter who have already cast their ballots for Hillary Clinton and who are having a bad case of buyer's remorse?In other words, you want to change your vote. Wisconsin is one of several states where you can change your early ballot if you think you've made a mistake. A lot of stuff has come out since you voted. So if you live here or in Michigan or Pennsylvania or Minnesota, those four places...... you can change your vote to Donald Trump. We'll make America great again. OK?She is not going to make America great. She will never make America great.The Clintons are the sordid past. We are the bright future. I say we -- we, it's we. I am a messenger -- I am only a messenger, remember, I'm only a messenger, but you have to say I'm doing a pretty good job as a messenger.But I'm the messenger. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to restore honesty and accountability to our government finally.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we are all here to say when we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C., and we are going to drain the swamp.You're not told -- I've said this before, but it was very interesting because when I first heard the statement, I said, give me a break. I hate it.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.Right now 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. Forty -- that's so true. Can you believe in this country? Forty-three percent of African-American school-aged children live in poverty. Thirty-two percent of Hispanic school-aged children live in poverty. This is our country. This is unacceptable in America. I will fix it -- I will fix it -- I will fix it.I've been saying a lot and I've been saying and speaking very openly about the inner cities and saying to the African-American community, the Hispanic community, I've been saying, what do you have to lose? It's such a disaster. What do you have to lose -- thank you.We're going to fix it. We're going to bring back great schools. We're going to stop the crime. The crime is unbelievable. We are going to bring back your jobs. What do you have to lose? We are going to fix it.As your president, I will go into the poorest communities and work on a national plan for revitalization.We will replace decades of failure with generations of success. We're going to have generations of success. America has lost one- third of its manufacturing jobs since Bill and Hillary's NAFTA. You know about that.One-third of your jobs -- you know, we have a highway, one-way highway right into Mexico in these other countries. They get the jobs, they get the plants, they get the money, we get the unemployment and the drugs, not a good deal. That's going to be changed around, folks. It's going to be changed here.I mean, you listen to this where America has lost -- we're going to build a wall, don't worry about it. We're going to build a wall.That's not even close. And Mexico is going to pay for the wall, and they understand that. They understand that.America has lost -- listen to this because it's impossible. I have been saying for two weeks -- I just got this stat -- for two weeks I've been saying, that's a typo. That's some kind of an error. It can't be possible. America has lost 70,000 factories -- 70,000. I thought they meant 700, I said, you have a mistake here, maybe 7,000. America has lost 70,000 factories because of politicians that don't know what they are doing or they are controlled by their special interests.Since China entered the World Trade Organization -- another Bill and Hillary -backed disaster -- we are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. That's what's happening to our country. We're being treated like we're stupid people. We have leaders who do not know what they are doing. We have leaders that don't have a clue.It's the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. That's what's happened to us. Hutchison Technology laid off 400 workers right here and moved their jobs to Thailand. Honeywell laid off 974 workers making printed circuit boards in Chippewa Falls. Their jobs...You won't be clapping for this -- their jobs went to China. This is a federal problem because Scott and these people have kept so many places, but they're -- it's very hard. It's very hard because we don't fight with real tools, meaning you make your product, you want to come back, not going to be so easy, you're going to pay a nice big fat tax on that product coming in.TTM Technology laid off 166 workers, and most of them went into Mexico and other places. Lots of jobs going to China, lots of jobs going to Japan, lots of jobs going to South Korea, and unbelievable numbers of jobs, and plants, and factories and everything else going into Mexico.A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, and we will stop the jobs from leaving Wisconsin. We'll work with your governor who is a great, great governor and we're going to stop it.We are going to stop it. The theft -- and that's what it is -- of American prosperity will come to a very rapid end. From now on it's going to be America First.A Donald Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA, and we will stand up to foreign product dumping all over, currency manipulation, and all of the unfair subsidy behavior that's going all over our country, makes it impossible -- impossible for our businesses to compete. They'll be competing very soon.We will also immediately stop the job killing Transpacific Partnership. That will be a disaster.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American businesses from 35 percent down to 15 percent. We're the highest taxed nation in the world.We will become a rich nation again, but to be a reach nation, we must also be a safe nation. In Chicago, 3,664 people have been shot since January 1st of this year. Can you believe that? That's worse than the places you read about and see in the Middle East, these are war zones. We have places that are more dangerous.In Milwaukee, homicides have risen to the highest level in more than 20 years. Nationwide, murders have experienced their largest single year increase in 45 years. You don't hear that from the dishonest media. they don't tell you that -- they don't tell you that.A Trump administration will work with local and federal law enforcements to end this growing crime wave, we have a crime wave. Every child in America has the right to grow up in safety and in peace.And we will also keep you safe from terrorism. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees flowing into our country.Who can't even believe it? Her plan would mean generations of terrorism and extremism spreading into your schools and throughout your communities. When I am elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program. We have no choice.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And as I said, and as you know, we're not playing games, yes, we will build the wall.And the fact that it's 110 degrees in this room, I don't care.Think of it as a sauna. This room was not designed for this many people. Think of it as a sauna and to use a sauna, you have to pay money. We get this for nothing.We have received the first ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers. First time they have ever done it. 16,500 great, amazing people. They tell us the border crisis is the worst it's ever been. It's a national emergency. It's the worst it's ever been right now. You know, you try and get some stats. They don't want to give you the stats -- the worst it's ever been right now just about as bad as it gets.Hillary has pledged totally open borders. There goes your country...... which truly would mean the destruction of the United States in a true sense. The immigrant officers warned in a letter when they endorsed me that Hillary's plan is, quote, "The most radical immigration proposal in United States history, " and that it would, quote, "Lead to the loss of thousands and thousands of lives."As secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free because their home countries very intelligently would not take them back. They don't want to take back murderers, drug lords, gang members, they say no. And let me just tell you something, they would bring them to their country, their country would say no. Get them out, bring them back to the United States where your leaders are stupid people. Bring them back to the United States. Let me tell you, that won't happen whether it's four years or eight years, that won't happen once if I am president, not once.One such criminal was set free on Hillary's watch, went on to kill a young American girl, a fantastic young woman named Casey Chadwick. You probably read about her. The killer who had already been convicted for shooting a girl in the head previously, and who people were begging to incarcerate or send out of our country should have been sent home, instead he was set free and stabbed Casey in the face and neck 15 different times and stuffed her body in a closet. People were begging that he be sent out -- we're going to make America safe again, believe me.That's one of many. That's one of many, so many different stories. Hillary also strongly supports sanctuary cities...... like in San Francisco where the incredible Kate Steinle, incredible young woman was killed in her father's arms by a five-time deported illegal immigrant. A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.We will deport all criminal aliens, stop the drugs from pouring into our communities and we will end this long nightmare of violence like we've never seen before.We will also appeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and re- build our badly depleted military, we have no choice -- we have no choice. That includes great support for nearby Fort McCoy.I am honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients -- it's a great group. Nobody has like we have whether it's law enforcement, the military, the veterans, and we are going to take care of our veterans, folks.Our new foreign policy will put America First. Hillary brought disaster to Iraq -- just total disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya. She empowered Iran, and she unleashed ISIS with the great void that was created, by the way, her and president Obama -- the campaigner -- I call him the "campaigning " -- he ought to focus -- instead on campaigning for Hillary Clinton, where he's probably now got a conflict in campaigning for her -- he ought to focus on bringing jobs back to our country, focus on getting rid of ISIS, focus on lots of other things.Now, Hillary wants to start a shooting war in Syria, a conflict with a nuclear armed Russia that could, frankly, for all we know to trigger World War III. For what?Hillary and her failed Washington establishment have spent six trillion dollars on wars in the Middle East that never end and that we never win. Remember that, they never end and we never win.And now, the Middle East is in worse shape than ever before. We could have built our country twice. We could have rebuilt the United States with six trillion dollars, we could have rebuilt it twice. They dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe. They have left our borders wide open at home and they have shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.To all Americans I say, it is now time finally for new leadership for change.Thank you.In closing, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.And she is going to raise your taxes substantially, remember. We are going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation.We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order. There are plenty of them -- there are plenty of them.There are plenty of them. We will rebuild our military and we will take care of our great, great veterans. We're going to take care of them. They have been treated terribly -- terribly. Our veterans have been treated terribly.Thank you.We are going to provide school choice and put an end to common core. We're bringing our education local.We will support the great men and women of law enforcement. That will take place quickly.The National Rifle -- you know this, right? The National Rifle Association, NRA, endorsed me -- the earliest endorsement they've ever given to anybody running for president.We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is totally under siege. We're going to save our Second Amendment.And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the constitution of the United States.Hillary wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can't change, and wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C.I am asking you to dream big, to push for bold change and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love of this great country.I am tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day, when they really mean another decade. America is tired of waiting. The moment is now.There has never been a movement like this in our country's history. There never will be again perhaps, but we have to take advantage of it on November 8th. We're going to turn things around and rapidly and rapidly. All we have to do is stop believing in our failed politicians and start believing in each other and in our country.There is no challenge too great and no dream outside of our reach, there is not. There is no dream outside of our reach. Don't let anyone tell you it can't be done. The future lies with the dreamers, not the cynics and not the critics.Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years and she has accomplished nothing. She's just made things worse.She is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future. We are, we are.Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds, and all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and first-time voters of which there are many, there are many.We are asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice, not money and power should rule the day for our country.And I have been on the other side and I understand the other side, perhaps I understand it better than anybody else, but I love our country and I saw what was happening to our country, and I made the right decision because, boy, did I become an outsider quickly. That I can tell you.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interest.We are fighting to unlock the tremendous potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a much better future, and it will happen.With your vote, we are just -- listen to this, after all of this time, one week -- one week, do you believe it?This started on June 16th...June 16th. Thank you.Thank you.Thank you, everybody. I will not disappoint you, that I promise, that I promise. You won't be disappointed.This great movement started on June 16th of last year, and now we're one week away -- think of it, one week, from the change you've been waiting your entire life, one week away. So on November 8th, go out. Don't disappoint yourselves, your families. Don't worry about me. We have to do it. We really have to do it because together we will make America wealthy again.We will make America strong again.We will make America safe again.And we will make America great again. God bless you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you. Thank you.There are a lot of those signs. Thank you. "Women for Trump.""Hispanics for Trump."There's one "Women and Hispanics for Trump."Thank you very much. In six days, we are going to win the great state of Florida and we are going to win back the White House 100 percent.We're on the cusp of an incredible historic change that transfers power from a failed political establishment and returns that power to our families, communities and citizens, to you.The system is rigged, remember that. The system is rigged. Right now it's rigged. We're going to change it.There's some breaking news about that subject that we're going to discuss right now. As I mentioned yesterday, on of the -- and you probably saw this and maybe some of you have just read it -- one of the top Department of Justice officials involved in the email investigation, Assistant Attorney General Peter Kassig...... is a close associate of John Podesta. The two met for dinner after Clinton testified about Benghazi and Podesta, who by the way said Hillary Clinton has terrible instincts on WikiLeaks, described him as the man who kept him, Podesta, out of jail.Kadzik is also the one who helped lead the effort to confirm Attorney General Loretta Lynch. Now, today, in a newly released email -- through WikiLeaks again -- we learned that Kadzik was feeding information about the investigation into the Clinton campaign and that...... right? And that Kadzik said quote "It will be a while before the State Department posts the emails." Remember they were waiting for the emails.Podesta forwarded the emails to Clinton's top staff and said, additional chances for mischief. These are the people that want to run our country, folks.The spread of political agendas into the Justice Department -- there's never been a thing like this that has happened in our country's history -- is one of the saddest things that has happened to our country. But with your vote you can beat the system, the rigged system, and deliver justice. So, show up early and vote. Show up early. You know, the lines are incredible. The polls are all saying we're going to win Florida. Don't believe it. Don't believe it. Get out there and vote. Pretend we're slightly behind. You got to get -- we don't want to blow this.This is the one chance we have, it'll never happen again. It's not going to happen. In four years, it's not going to happen -- it can't happen again. This is a movement like we have never seen in this country before. These crowds, the enthusiasm, the love.Got to get out and vote. Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.And Hillary is not going to be the answer because she wants to make it more expensive. She's doubling down. It's just been announced that the residents of Florida -- sorry to tell you this, folks -- are going to experience a massive, massive double digit premium hike.Now, I know what that hike is, but I want you to leave here happy, I want you to be happy people. I want you to think about the future after we take back the White House so I'm not going to tell you what your hike is, but let me just say it's going to be very substantial. And Obamacare doesn't work on top of everything else. As an example, in the great state of Arizona -- which I just left -- premiums are going up more than 116 percent. It's out of control.Over 90 percent of the counties in Florida are losing Obamacare insurance next year. Lots of luck in your negotiation. In Minnesota where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor said, the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting and deductibles are absolutely through the roof. Wasn't supposed to be like this, but I said it was going to be like this before it was passed because I understand how business works. Obamacare never had a chance. It's a catastrophe. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare making it even more expensive. It's going to go up a lot. People aren't going to be able to afford it so I'm not sure that it matters, they're just not going to be able to pay. I'm asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Florida and the United States.Real change also means restoring honesty to our government. As you know, the FBI has -- did you hear about this little event? The FBI re-opening the investigation.They're re-opening the investigation into Crooked Hillary Clinton.Crooked Hillary, she's crooked.She is a crooked one, there's no question. Crooked Hillary Clinton, you know that term has really stuck, everyone's calling her -- has anyone seen Crooked Hillary Clinton today?That's going to be a great term for a president, right? Boy, oh boy, what a mess. This is the biggest scandal since Watergate. And now it's been reported that there are FBI inquiries probing virtually all of Hillary Clinton's inner circle and many of the things she's done over the years. It's about time. Remember, it's a rigged system, remember it's about time.She wants to blame everyone else for her mounting legal troubles, but she really has no one to blame but herself. Hillary is the one who set up the illegal private email server to shield her criminal activity. The woman screaming exactly, exactly, it is exactly. Hillary is the one who engaged in a corrupt pay-for-play scheme at the State Department and who ripped off the people of Haiti, the people of Haiti were ripped off.And I met with the people of Little Haiti. Anybody here?These are great people, great, thank you.Hillary is the one who endangered national security by sending classified information on an insecure server. Hillary is the one who lied so many times to Congress and the FBI. Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.And she's the one who destroyed 33,000 emails after receiving a Congressional subpoena.She also accepted debate questions given to her in advance by Donna Brazile.... and then used those debate questions to cheat. It's cheating, the worst level. Instead of reporting this breach to an ethics committee or whoever would listen to the breach. So she got the answers, cheating. She got the questions, cheating. And then she -- rather than reporting them, rather than saying this shouldn't be happening -- she used them against Bernie Sanders.Can you imagine -- she probably got them against me too except we won the debate so easy I don't think it mattered. We won those debates.Did you see her at the end of the debates? Folks, she was exhausted. You know what she did? She immediately went home and went to sleep.Hillary is not the victim, and the American people, frankly, are the victims of this rigged and corrupt system in every way. But this is your chance finally to change it, November 8th. Now in Florida's case, earlier. Now, just so you understand, record turnout, unbelievable numbers, unbelievable. We're doing great with the African-American community.We're doing great with the Hispanic community.And the lines are four, five and six blocks long. They've never seen anything like it. And the polls have just come up. We're way up in Florida. I shouldn't say that, because I want you to go vote.OK, ready? We're going to pretend we're down. We're down. Pretend, right? We'll pretend we're down. No, we got to win. We got to win big. We got to beat her. Got to beat her. We're up in Ohio, we're up in Iowa, we're up in North Carolina.I think we're doing great in Pennsylvania, from what I hear.Folks, you're going to be so proud. You're going to be so proud. We're going to make America great again. You're going to be so happy and you're going to be so proud of your country again.If Hillary Clinton were to be elected, it would create an unprecedented and protracted constitutional crisis.Haven't we just been through a lot with the Clintons, right? Remember when he was impeached for lying? He can't practice law. He doesn't have the right to practice law. Didn't we just go through this? And the last thing we need is another four years of Obama. That's the last thing.And this will be worse. That means ISIS, that means high taxes, that means bad health care, that means no border. Without a border, we don't have a country. The work of government would grind to a halt if she were ever elected. She'll be in court for her entire tenure and she'll be convicted. Because look, the first time -- I mean, frankly, forget about this time. The first time she gets a subpoena from the United States Congress and she deletes everything? There shouldn't have been a second time.But I have respect that the FBI has given it a second chance. And this time, I have no doubt that in that 650,000 emails -- did you see where they said, oh, we're not worried. They're duplicates. How can there be duplicates if there are hundreds of thousands more than you started off with?So today, I guess WikiLeaks, it sounds like, is going to be dropping some more, and if we met tomorrow, I'll tell you about it tomorrow, but one beauty that's been caught was, and this was just recently, newly released, where they say having a dump. We're having a dump of all of those emails. In another communication, Bill Clinton's chief of staff says foreign government -- right, this should be another one. Just like swamp -- you know the swamp little statement -- this one, this one. Do you remember what it is? Right? All the money is in, right? They said all the money is in. They're talking about foreign money pouring into their pockets. They said all the money is in.This is what is running for office. Honestly, she should be ashamed of herself. She should be ashamed of herself.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to restore honesty to our government. That includes a ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections. Makes sense. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to heed the words we all will be saying right now. When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.Gonna drain the swamp. We're gonna drain the swamp, folks. We're gonna drain that swamp.Another important issue for Americans is integrity in journalism. These people are among the most dishonest people I've ever met, spoken to, done business with. These are the most dishonest people.There has never been dishonesty -- there has never been dishonesty like we've seen in this election. There's never been anywhere near the media dishonesty like we've seen in this election. Don't worry, they won't spin the cameras and show the kind of massive crowds. They won't do that.The very talented Michael Goodwin of the New York Post just wrote today that 2016 presidential race will mark the low-water mark of journalism that is worthy -- think of it -- of the First Amendment. Never before have so many media organizations, old and new, abandoned all pretense of fairness to take sides and try to pick a president.It's unbelievable. It's unhonestly.For instance, we have a great story. We give it out to the media. They'll make it look as bad as possible -- as bad as possible. Parenthetically...So sad. Parenthetically and very sadly, earnings for the New York Times are down 97 percent this year. They just announced that. So bad. I feel so badly for them. Just announced -- 97 percent. Oh, they're doing great. And then they tell you who to vote for, you know? Who to vote for. They want Crooked Hillary.This isn't about me; it's about all of you and our magnificent movement to make America great again all over this country. And they're talking about it all over the world.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back jobs.Right now, 70 million American women and children live in poverty or near the brink of poverty. Forty-three percent of African- American school-aged children live in poverty. Thirty-two percent of Hispanic school-aged children live in poverty.This is America, this is the United States, this is unacceptable. As your president, I will go into the poorest communities and work on a national plan for revitalization.We will replace decades of failure with generations of success. Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary.And here's a number that you should remember because it's not even a believable number, and it's correct. America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization. Another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster.We are living through the greatest jobs left in the history of the world. Our jobs are going to Mexico, our jobs are going to other countries. China and others are making our product. We don't make it anymore. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Florida.My second home, you know that, I'm here all the time. My second home, great place.The theft of American prosperity will end. So they are stealing our prosperity, horribly stealing our prosperity. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and we'll stand up to foreign product dumping all over the place.Currency manipulation by China and many other countries and all of the unfair subsidy behavior that's going on all over the world against us. We will also immediately stop the job-killing, Transpacific Partnership, a disaster.And Hillary wants it to happen, she called it the gold standard, then she rejected it. But she's going to approve it. Then she lied during the debate, right? She lied.She lied during the debate. She said she never called it the gold standard, she lied. And she lied about the line in the sand, right? She lied. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We will also cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations...... and use that money to support America's vital environmental infrastructure and natural resources. We're spending hundreds of billions of dollars. We don't even know who's doing what with the money. We're gonna spend the money here. We're gonna work on our own environment.That includes repairing the Herbert Hoover Dike at Lake Okeechobee and protecting the Florida Everglades.We will become a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.A terrible tragedy today has occurred in Iowa. You read, you saw. Early this morning, two Iowa police officers, outstanding, outstanding people, were murdered, ambushed, ambushed violently while sitting in their squad cars. We send our thoughts and prayers to the family of the fallen. I just left Iowa, most beautiful place. The treatment was so incredible, the crowds, the police officers were so incredible the job they did. Now two of them are dead. An attack on our police is an attack on all of us.Law enforcement is the line separating civilization from total chaos, you have to remember that.And what it is, is a lack of respect for our nation, it's a lack of respect for our leadership. To all the great men and women of law enforcement I want you to know, we're with you, we support you and we will stand by you.We will restore law order and justice in America -- justice.Thank you. Thank you, so good luck to the people of Iowa.We will also work with our federal and local law enforcements to keep America safe from terrorism.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees pouring into our countries.... and we will keep radical Islamic terrorist the hell out of your community.Now, we all have heart and we're gonna build safe zones and we're gonna have some of the Gulf States that have nothing but money, they'll put up the money, we'll lead it, we'll build safe zones.But we have enough problems in our country. She wants to increase the thousands and thousands that are pouring in right now. She wants to increase that number by 550 percent.And then, you wonder why Podesta says, she has bad instincts and you wonder why Bernie Sanders says, she's got bad judgment, they're right. She's got bad judgment, personally I think she's a very unstable person, if you wanna really know the truth.And we're gonna repeal and replace Obamacare, but you wanna know something? Honestly, I think for herself she's got much bigger problems right now than Obamacare. She's got bigger problems.Let's see what's on all those emails that they just found, see what's on those emails.Thank you.It's too bad those cameras aren't turning around to see this incredible group of people with thousands more outside, isn't it too bad?They don't do it. But you know, if Hillary speaks and there's 30 people in the line they say, the crowd is massive.She's never had a crowd like this in her life.President Obama shouldn't be campaigning for any longer, it's really a conflict, right? He oughta be working on jobs, on the border, on building up our military instead of campaigning for Crooked Hillary Clinton, is what he oughta be doing.He's in North Carolina, but we're going to North Carolina right after this, so.But we have a few more today in Florida, and we have massive crowds. There's something happening. They're not reporting it. Katie, you're not reporting it, Katie.But there's something happening, Katie. There's something happening, Katie. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build the wall.Thank you.We've received the first ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers. First time they've ever endorsed a presidential candidate.They tell us the border crisis taking place right now is the worst it's ever been. Now, in all fairness, people probably figure that I'm going to win.So, they're racing across the border. I don't know. I'm sorry to do this to you, folks.Hillary has pledged totally open borders, meaning you don't have a country anymore. And she strongly supports sanctuary cities like in San Francisco where...Right? Where Kate Steinle was killed by a five time deported illegal immigrant.The immigration officers warn that Hillary's plan is the most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history and that it will lead to the loss of thousands of lives. And I believe that. As secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free because their countries would not take them back.Countless innocent Americans have been killed by illegal immigrants. Last year, as an example, 17-year-old Starlett Pitts, her boyfriend and her mother were stabbed to death in their Lee High Acres home by an illegal immigrant. The killer had been convicted of assaulting a police officer and was wanted for double murder and robbery. And the people that knew him were begging that he be incarcerated. They were begging. He was released from custody pending his court appearance, enabling him to commit murder.A Trump administration will stop illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens and save American lives.And I want to thank, by the way, I see all these signs -- "Cubans for Trump." Cubans. I love Cubans.So they gave me last week the Bay of Pigs Association, right? You know. They gave me their award last week and it was a great honor. And we're gonna fight very hard for the Cubans and we're gonna fight very, very hard for the Hispanics because they have not been properly taken care of. What's happened with the Hispanic population in our country is not right. What's happened with the inner cities of our country, the African-American community, the Hispanic community, is very, very unfair.Thank you. Thank you.We're going to take care of it. The crime is horrible, the education is terrible, and you can't get a job. We're going to fix the inner cities -- we're going to fix the inner cities.Thank you, fellows, that's so good. Blacks for Trump. That's so nice.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military.That includes total support for homestead air reserve base. A Trump administration will stand in solidarity with the suffering people of Cuba and Venezuela all surrounding Dural -- all surrounding Dural against the oppression of the Castro and Maduro regimes, you know what I'm talking about.We will cancel Obama's one-sided Cuban deal made by Executive Order. If we do not get the deal we want, and the deal that people living in Cuba and here deserve...... including protecting religious and political freedom, right? I'm honored to have the endorsement of over 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients.You know it's really called peace through strength. Peace through strength, that's what we're going to have, well, hopefully. Have to get rid of ISIS -- we're going to get rid of ISIS, don't worry, we're getting rid of ISIS. But we have to get to rebuild our country.We've spent six trillion dollars in the Middle East -- six trillion dollars. And it's in far worse shape, by a factor of 10, from when we started. Six trillion -- we lost lives, the most incredible, great people.Our new foreign policy will put America First. Hillary brought disaster to Iraq and Syria and Libya. And she empowered Iran, remember, she's got bad judgment. And she unleashed ISIS, came right out of the vacuum. Now she wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict with nuclear-armed Russia. Frankly, it could lead to World War III and she has no sense. She's got no instinct, but that's decided.Hillary and our failed Washington establishment, they've spent that six trillion dollars. I mean, I'd love to have that money back, but I'd much rather have all those lives back -- rather have all those lives.Love to have those lives back. But the Middle East is in bad shape folks, and it's getting worse, totally getting worse. They've dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe. They've left our borders wide open at home and they've shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries. And these are foreign wars that we don't win -- we don't win. We don't win anymore, we don't win with trade, we don't win with wars, we don't win anymore. We're going to start winning again, you watch. We're going to start.To all Americans I say it's time for new leadership. Just think about what can be accomplished in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.And she is going to raise your taxes very substantially, I think you know that.We will eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation, cancel every illegal Obama executive order, rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans.Provide school choice and put an end to Common Core; we're bringing our education local.Support the men and women of law enforcement.We're going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege...... and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Clinton wants us to think small, wants us to believe things can't change and wants our lives to revolve around Washington. I wonder if she's going to be there much longer. What do you think?I don't think so. I don't know. I'm not sure she's going to be there. But she wants -- she wants our lives to revolve around Washington, D.C. I'm asking you to dream big, to push for bold change and to believe in a movement powered by the people and by their love for this great country.I'm tired of politicians telling Americans to defer their dreams to another day when they really mean another decade. America is tired of waiting. The moment is now. All we have to do is stop believing in our failed politicians and start believing in each other and in our country.There is no challenge too great, no dream outside of our reach. Don't let anyone tell you it can't be done. The future lies with the dreamers, not the cynics, not the critics, certainly not the media.Hillary has been there for 30 years and she has accomplished nothing. She's just made things worse. Look at her record. She's the candidate of yesterday; we are the -- right? Is that right?We are the movement of the future. Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and all walks of life. We are asking for the votes of Republicans and Democrats and independents and first time voters. And believe me, there are a lot of first time voters that are standing on line right now.We're asking for the vote of every American who believes truth and justice, not money and power, should rule the day. And I understand the other side very well. I've been there for a long time, but I love our country and I understand what has to be done. We are going in the wrong direction, and if we keep going in this direction, we won't have a country any longer.We're fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests. We're fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future.With your vote, we are just -- think of it -- six days away.This started on June 16th of last year. It's a long time. Seems like a long time ago. But we're six days away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life. It'll never happen again. It'll never, ever happen. It's not going to happen in four years. When I see Cubans for Trump, it'll never happen again. I'm telling you. This whole thing will never happen again.There's never been a movement like this in the history of our country -- there's never been a movement like this.Thank you. Thank you.There has never been a movement like this in the history of our country -- it's never happened. Even the pundits, even the ones that truly dislike Donald Trump have said, it's the single greatest phenomena the have ever seen. We have to close the deal. We have to close -- get out and vote. November 8th fine, better if you vote now.Maybe you don't feel good November 8th, you don't want to get outta bed, you gotta get up, you gotta vote.Together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and we will make America great again.Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.Get out and vote. God bless you, everybody. Thank you.Thank you, everybody, thank you. Wow. These crowds.These crowds are terrific. Thank you very much. In six days, we are going to win the great state of Florida. And we are going to win back the White House. That will happen. But you have to get out, you have to vote, we have to get out there. We don't want to blow it.That I can tell you because we have worked very hard, all of us, you, me, everybody. And it's very historic what's happening. I'd like to begin today by thanking all of you for joining me. This has been an incredible journey and we've all done it together. We're almost at the end.But we're really at the end of the beginning if you think about it. Aren't we? The end of the beginning. Our magnificent history movement has surprised the world and defied expectations at every single turn.And now, next Tuesday, we will have one last glorious surprise for the pundits, the politicians and the special interests and return the power back to the people. It's going to happen.It's going to happen. It's been the honor of my life share this journey with you, it has absolutely been.There are two people, however, who I did not really get to share this with but who are in my thoughts often. And that's my mother and my father, great people.I had great parents. Great parents. I know they're up there watching, I just felt that nice breeze. It's hot, but I just felt that nice breeze...... so they're helping us out. And I just want to say thank you to both of them. Special, special people. I've had a great life and now I want to give back to the country that I love. It's time, we have to -- we have to give back, folks...I've seen how the career of politicians, the big donors and the special interests have bled this country dry and stripped our middle class and stripped our companies of its jobs and its wealth. But we're just six days away from delivering justice for every forgotten man, woman and child in this country...Justice for every child trapped in poverty in the inner cities, for every family that's born -- and you know that, they've been born into a situation in some case; they can't get out of it. We're going to get them out of it. We're going to get them out of it.We have endless wars. Every community's hopes and dreams have been shattered and we're not going to let that happen. Our inner cities are going to come back and they're going to come back strong and your going to see what I mean.And the African-American community and the Hispanic community are really understanding what's going on and you see that right now. You see that right now in what's happening at the polls.We're winning in Florida, we're winning in Ohio, we're winning in Iowa, in North Carolina. We're doing great in Pennsylvania. A lot of people are saying Pennsylvania's looking very good. So many different places.We just got a poll with three up in Virginia.But we are seriously up in Florida. That's very important, so...And I will never, ever let you down. Real change begins immediately with repealing and replacing Obamacare, a disaster.A disaster.It is a disaster. It's just been announced that the residents of Florida are going to experience a massive double digit premium hike.I will not tell you what the number is. I know the number very well, but I want you to leave happy. You don't want to hear the number, go home, relax, wake up good and strong tomorrow morning. You'll learn, you're not going to like it.In the great state of Arizona, where we just left, the premiums are going up more than 116 percent.Over 90 percent of the counties in Florida -- and by the way, in the primaries, I won 66 out of 67 primaries. That's good.In Minnesota where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor has said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Obamacare is a total catastrophe.Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.I'm asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save healthcare for every family in Florida, so important.Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.As you know, the FBI has reopened its investigation into Crooked Hillary Clinton.Hillary wants to blame everyone else for amounting legal troubles and I don't see if you've watched her last few speeches over the last few days. She has become totally unhinged, unbelievable.What she's saying and what she's doing is actually, it's unbelievable. But she has no one to blame but herself. Hillary is the one who set up the illegal private email server to shield her criminal activity.Hillary is the one who engaged in a corrupt pay for play scheme at the State Department. Hillary is the one who lied so many times to Congress and to the FBI. Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer and who destroyed 33,000 emails after -- after, after, after receiving a congressional subpoena, think of that.Unbelievable.And as you know, they just found -- listen to this and I guess you know it, 650,000 emails.And I would say that classified, confidential, I think they're probably all over the place. I think they're -- I think they're gonna find a treasure trough. I can't even imagine.In fact, they said well, this is OK they're duplicates. How could there be duplicates when it's many more times what we thought was stolen in the first place, right?You know, when they deleted 33,000 I thought that was a lot. They have 650,000? Hillary is the one who accepted debate questions given to her in advance and used them to cheat.Instead of reporting the breach. That's a big deal. You know, to me that's a big deal. Some people say oh, that's fine, that's a big deal. That's really -- that's a real cheater, OK? That's a cheater.And she was given the questions by a woman that frankly should resigned from the DNC or be fired.If you notice, they never go after Hillary. They always talk about Donna Brazile, Donna Brazile didn't do it. But can you imagine if I got -- can you imagine, they gave the questions to Donald Trump before a debate.You know it would be the electric chair. They'd reinstitute the electric chair. No.It'd be headlines all over the world. This isn't headlines.I bring it up; it's brought up a little bit. But this isn't like a big deal. She got the debate questions and answers.But she got the debate questions prior to a debate. Now, Bernie Sanders should be angry right? Shouldn't he be angry?Now, I'll tell you what. The system is rigged. The system is rigged.I've been saying it for a -- it's rigged, and we're gonna straighten it out. But the system is rigged. Hillary is not the victim; the American people are the victims of this system.So corrupt in so many ways. And this is your one chance to change it because you know what?In four years, not gonna happen. There's no way. The numbers won't work.In four years, there's no way. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency. And if she were to be elected, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis.I mean before you go into phase two -- let's call what happened on Friday phase two. Phase one, she's so guilty. She shouldn't be allowed to run for the presidency.That's why I say the system is rigged. She shouldn't be allowed to run. But I have a feeling in the 650,000 emails, they're gonna find things that you will not even believe.Who knows. 650,000 emails. No wonder she can't do anything.No, no. How do you work? How do you do it?650,000. They'll have to explain that to us some day.But they'll have some things in there that I can just imagine are going to be unbelievable. Hillary's likely to be under investigation for many years. Probably concluding in a criminal trial.Out today, WikiLeaks just came out with a new one. Just a little while ago. It's just been shown that a rigged system with more collusion, possibly illegal between the Department of Justice, the Clinton campaign, and the State Department.You saw that. The emails show that the Assistant Attorney General who's involved in the investigation has been feeding information directly to John Podesta and the Clinton campaign. Can you believe this?She shouldn't be allowed to run.By the way, behind me, the great Johnny Damon. The curse of the Yankees, but ultimately he helped the Yankees. Johnny Damon.Now, I'll tell ya. George Steinbrenner was a good friend of mine. Oh, he didn't like Johnny too much.Then he ultimately signed him and then he was fine. He did great.But Johnny Damon was a champ. He was a winner. And he loves this area, you know that. My contract with the American voter begins with a tough ethics reform, and it ends -- I'll tell you what. We are going to end -- we have no choice.We really have no choice -- government corruption. It's going to end.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to heed the words we all will say right now when we win on November 8. We are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton with the support of Crooked Hillary.America has lost -- this is so hard to believe -- 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization.Another Bill and Hillary backed disaster. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, and we will stop the jobs from leaving Florida. They're leaving. We're going to stop it.And you have an excellent governor, by the way. He's fighting hard for you folks. I don't know -- I don't know. All I can tell you is he is a worker, he is a worker, and he's fighting very hard. The theft of American prosperity will end and it'll end, I'll tell you. We are -- it is being stolen from us folks.It is -- we have a one-way highway right into Mexico, right into other countries. And we're going to stop it. From now on, it's going to be America First.America First.It's going to be America First.A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and we will stand up to foreign product dumping, currency manipulation, and all of the unfair subsidy behaviors. It's horrible what's happening to us. Our politicians don't have a clue, they don't know what they're doing -- or other things, OK. We will also immediately stop the job killing Transpacific Partnership. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent. We're the highest taxed nation in the world. Killing our jobs. Our companies are leaving. Killing our jobs.We will become a rich nation once again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. In Orlando, the murder rate doubled, you know that? Doubled last year. Can you believe it? We will support our police, and I met you police of Orlando, they are unbelievable people and they've been through a lot.I met the police and these are unbelievable people. We will bring this crime wave to an end. We will also keep our community safe from terrorism. Just a short time ago, Orlando was the victim of the worst mass shooting in American history during the Islamic terror attack on The Pulse nightclub.When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refuge program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of your community.Got to keep them out. And we'll build safe zones in Syria. We have to help the people. We're going to build safe zones, but the Gulf States haven't been doing their thing.And believe me, they have plenty of money. They'll help us, they'll fund it, I'm sure they'll be thrilled. They're going to be funding it, and that will be OK. We want to help people. But we have enough problems in this country. We don't need Orlando and problems. We don't need what happened in San Bernardino.We don't need what's happening in Paris, in Nice and in Germany -- which is a disaster. We don't need it. We have enough problems right now, do we agree? We have enough problems. We don't need it. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.And yes, we will build a great wall.APPLAUSEWe received the first ever endorsement from our ICE and border patrol officers, great people. The officers that warned that Hillary's plan is the most quote, radical immigration proposal in United States history, and that it will lead to the loss of thousands and thousands of lives, quote.As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free because their home countries were intelligent, they wouldn't take them back.We bring them to their countries -- murderers, drug dealers, gang members, we'd bring them to their countries and their countries would say: get them out, we're not taking them back. They call up the State Department, and the State Department under Hillary Clinton would say: oh, bring them back, we don't want to make waves.I guarantee you, whether it's four years or eight years, that will not happen once under a Trump administration.Hillary wants totally open borders and strongly supports sanctuary cities. Like San Francisco, where Kate Steinle -- incredible young woman -- was murdered by an illegal immigrant who had been deported five times.A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities immediately. We will end illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens -- the ones we just spoke about -- and we will save American lives. We will also repeal Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our very badly depleted military.That includes major new investments in resources from Pensacola Naval Air Station at MacDill Air Force Base. Have you ever heard of those places? Pretty good places. A lot of people here, lot of people. I'm honored to have the endorsement of 200 -- more than that now, much more than that -- top Admirals and Generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients.Great people, I've met so many of them, they're incredible. Incredible people. Our new foreign policy will put America First. Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spend $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that we never won and that never end. And it's now in worse shape than ever before.The Middle East is a catastrophe, it's far worse off than had we spent nothing.They've dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe. They've left our borders wide open at home. And they've shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries. And it's -- it's disappearing. Our country, in a certain sense, is disappearing. Prosperity -- real prosperity is disappearing. We owe $20 trillion. Our trade deals, we lose $800 billion a year on trade. We have trade deficits. Think of that. Who negotiates these deals?You know who does? Stupid people. Stupid people.With very stupid leadership. Who, by the way, they campaign all the time. He's campaigning right now for Crooked Hillary.Why is he campaigning? She's under federal investigation, and we've got a president campaigning for her. And that's all he does is campaign. He ought to be working on your jobs that are leaving and going to Mexico. And your military.I'll tell you what, first of all, she's got bigger problems. But four more years of Obama, we can't take it, folks. Four more years of ISIS, that's what it is. Four more years of no jobs.Now, she wants to start a shooting war in Syria and conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia that could very well lead to World War III. Russia is heavily armed, doesn't like her. Putin does not respect her, doesn't like her. What are we doing, folks? She's a mess.To all Americans, I say it's time for new leadership.Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.Thank you. It's so beautiful over there. I just noticed the water. Let's go in for a swim. It's about 200 degrees out there.Anybody want to go swimming? Let's go.We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. And Hillary wants to increase your taxes by a tremendous amount. You know, we're already the highest-taxed nation in the world. She wants to increase your taxes, if you can believe that one.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. Killing your companies. Killing them. One of the reasons they're leaving. Cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We're going to rebuild our military and take care of our great, great veterans. They're not being taken care of. You know that. A lot of veterans here. We're going to take care of our veterans finally. They have been mistreated for many, many years.We're going to support the men and women of law enforcement.We will save the Second Amendment which is, as you know, under tremendous siege.We will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.We will show the world that there is no challenge too great, no dream outside of our reach. There's no dream -- no dream outside of our reach. We have all these people telling us what to do. Politicians -- they know nothing. I've dealt with them all my life, folks. All talk, no action.I'll tell you what, you take a look at the media. These are the most dishonest people anywhere.These are the most -- they -- the media -- the media is a part and one of the vital cogs in the rigged system under which we live. They're a big fat cog in the -- and they never show the crowds. They never show what's happening.But you know what? You hear -- when you hear 20,000, sometimes 30,000, when you hear people, sounds like you're at an Ohio State football game.But they never show it. They never show it.They never show it.People of Florida, we love you. All we have to do is cut our ties with these failed politicians of the past. Hillary is a candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future. We are.Let me tell you, they're setting records in Texas, and they're voting for Trump, just so you understand that.And they know it.But when they see those numbers coming, they don't want to announce them. But we are winning almost everywhere. I think -- give us two more days, I think we're going to be winning everywhere.And I'm almost starting to think that the least important problem that Hillary has is the fact that we're winning. I think she's got perhaps bigger problems than even that.We're fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and nor Hillary's special interests.We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a much better future.I am asking you to dream big -- I got to dream big. Because with your vote, we are just -- can you believe this? -- six days away. Think of that.From the change you've been waiting for your entire life.We're going to work together. We're going to vote. You're going to vote now or you're going to vote by the 8th. But you're going to vote.Thank you. I love that guy. He's a tough guy, but he just screamed out, "You're going to win." We're going to win. Thank you, man. Thank you.We have great, great love.You know, we're in a divided nation. We are a divided nation. We're not going to be divided. We're going to have such love in this country. We're going to have such love and such respect.Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again.We will make America safe again.And we will make America great again.Thank you very much. Thank you, folks. God bless you, everybody. God bless you.Thank you. Get out and vote. Get out and vote. Thank you.Thank you very much. What a great honor, what a great crowd.We're having a lot of fun. A lot of very, very big poll numbers coming down over the last few days. You've seen it. Big.In six days, we're going to win the great state of Florida and we are going to win the White House. We're going to win it.It's feeling like it already, isn't it? We've got to be nice and cool. Nice and cool.Right? Stay on point, Donald. Stay on point.No sidetracks, Donald, nice and easy, nice. Because I've been watching Hillary the last few days, she's totally unhinged. We don't want any of that.She has become unhinged.You've got to make sure to vote and to vote early if you can on November 8th. And I think -- who has voted already?Whoa! Well, anybody that wants to leave right now to vote is OK. I'm only kidding. You'll vote tomorrow.The new L.A. Times poll, highly respected, has us up six points nationwide. And I have some more really interesting and great breaking news to share with everyone here today.No, it's not that.But that will be that. It's just been announced that in the month of October we've raised over $100 million in small donations. I don't think that's ever been done. Has that ever been done before?That sounds more like a Democrat thing, not a Republican thing, right? That's a great honor. That means there are a lot of people out there that want us to really get this done. And I've contributed a tremendous amount of money, but when we have those small dollars, $61 and $52 and $17, when that money comes in and then we raise around $100 million that's a tremendous compliment to everybody here. It really is. It really is.These are donations from everyday patriotic Americans who love their country and want a better future for their children, who are going to have it.Our movement is about borders and is about bringing back our jobs. You know about that from this area.It's about reducing taxes and raising incomes. Our movement's about defeating ISIS. We have no choice. We have no choice.We want to rebuild our country. But they're chopping off heads, they're drowning people in steel cages. We have no choice.And keeping our country safe from radical Islamic terrorism.It's a movement about restoring respect for America and for the American flag.We're disrespected right now all over the world. But that will change very, very quickly. It really will. It really will. We'll get along with a lot of countries that right now we do not get along with and that frankly take advantage of us. From now on, it will be America First, folks. America First.Finally, it's a movement about taking our government back.Thank you. Thank you.There's an amazing love for our country. I see it all over this great land.Thank you. I love you, too. Thank you.And in case you didn't know, I've been on the other side for a long time. And I saw where the country was going. It was headed in the wrong direction. And I love this country and I just said we're going to have to do it. It's not easy. It's not easy. I have to put up with some of the most dishonest people in the world, the media.They never show crowds like that. Look at that, it goes all the way back. They never show crowds. They don't show crowds.But I guarantee you one thing, folks. I guarantee you one thing. If we had a small crowd, if for some reason a little small group of people showed up, it would be the biggest story out there. That I can tell you.These are really dishonest people. And they are not happy with what's going -- this was not in their game plan, folks. They are not happy.Dishonest media, among the most dishonest people.And I was sad to see The New York Times lost 97 percent, down profits 97 percent.Ninety-seven percent down and then they tell you who they want for president, right? We know better.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.It's just been announced that the residents of Florida, hate to tell you this, are going to experience massive, double-digit premium hikes. I know what those hikes are.Should I tell you? Let's keep it -- I want you to leave happy tonight knowing that we're going to make America great again, OK?And in the very near future, it's going to be gone, Obamacare, so don't worry. But I won't tell you what the number is. You're not going to be happy when you hear the number. In the great state of Arizona, premiums are going up more than 116 percent. I just left Arizona, great people, unbelievable place. Their premiums are going up more than 116 percent.All of the counties in the Florida Panhandle will have only one single Obamacare insurer to choose from next year. Good luck with that negotiation. Not so lucky. Don't worry, don't worry, it's going to be gone fast.But think of it. Now, do you know how much they're going to make? This is what they dream of. They all wanted to be on, they're all gone, they're all gone, you're going to have one to deal with. It's a disaster.In Minnesota where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor has said, and he's gotten a lot of heat for saying this, the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. That was last week.Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting and deductibles are going through the roof. Other than that, it's actually quite good. What a shame. And I said it from the -- I've said a lot of things from the beginning, you have to say.You know, they said about Hillary she's got bad instincts, right? You know who said that? Podesta. I would fire Podesta so fast. I mean, the way he talks about her, you know, whether true, not true, who cares? He speaks so badly about her. Of course, he didn't know that there was a thing called WikiLeaks, right? He didn't know about that. But he said she's got bad instincts and she does have bad, very bad instincts. And Bernie Sanders, what did he say? Got bad judgment, she's got bad judgment. She's got bad instincts, she's got bad judgment. That's not going to be your president.If we don't get rid of Obamacare it will destroy American health care forever, yet Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, making it much more expensive than it already is.I'm asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Florida and the United States.Real change also means restoring honesty to government. Do you think Hillary's going to restore honesty to government? I don't know.I don't think so, folks. As you know, the FBI has reopened its criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton.All right. Is your sound turned back up?You know what they do, they turn the sound down when you're doing that. Are you guys back? Did you put your sound back up?Hillary wants to blame everyone else for her mounting legal troubles, but she has no one to blame but herself. Hillary is the one who set up an illegal private email server to shield her criminal activity. Hillary is the one who endangered national security for you, your family by sending classified information on an insecure server. Hillary is the one who lied so many times to Congress and to the FBI. Hillary is the one who made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer, and who destroyed 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. That's after, after. Unbelievable.But I have a feeling those 650,000 -- 650,000 emails -- I have a feeling those emails are going to be -- whoa, there are going to be some beauties in there. Can you imagine? She's been deleting all the time, deleting, and then they say, yeah, we have a problem. What? They just found 650,000 emails. Now, you can't have 650,000 for the wedding and for the yoga, right? You can't, it's too many.No, that's a big number. You know, when you hear that many email s, then you wonder why she never gets anything done. I guess that's part of the reason.Hillary is the one who accepted debate questions given to her by Donna Brazile.... in advance of a debate, and now it's turned out to be two debates with Bernie Sanders. Can you imagine Bernie Sanders? If that happened to me, it probably did, although we won the debates anyway. I don't think it matters. I don't think it matters.But can you imagine that Bernie Sanders keeps supporting her? I think eventually he's going to say I can't do it. I mean, honestly, if somebody got the debate questions on me and I found out about it, and they only found out about it through this whole deal with WikiLeaks, but if somebody found out that for me, I would never want to be speaking with that person again. I would imagine it's only a question of time, hopefully before the election, that Bernie Sanders says that's one of the most dishonest acts because Hillary never reported it as a breach.She got the questions and she never reported it. And they don't say that, these people. All they do is talk about Donna Brazile. Who cares about Donna Brazile? Who cares about her? It's not Donna Brazile. She was dishonest.By the way, did you see her on television the other night trying to answer that one? That was called choking. Let me out of the studio, please.Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy, what a country. But we're going to make it respected again, we're going to make it great again, I'm telling you.But hopefully at some point, Bernie Sanders will do the right thing. And some of his people have told me, how can he continue to support her when she cheated -- when she cheated -- on the debates. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency. And if she were elected, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. You know what's going to happen.And in all fairness, we went through it with the husband, he was impeached. His law license was taken. You know, he can't represent you. If you want a lawyer, you can't even use him, his license was taken away.Folks, do we want to go through this again?And do we want for more years of Obama? That's what it's going to be.You know what that means? ISIS running around all over the place, higher taxes, no borders, a depleted military. No, we're going to change it around.Hillary is likely to be under investigation for many years, probably concluding in criminal trials.And through WikiLeaks today, it's just been shown that this is, as I've been saying, a rigged system with more collusion, possibly illegal, between the Justice Department, the Clinton campaign and the State Department. Right? You saw that, just came out.The emails show that the assistant attorney general, who is involved in the investigation, has been feeding information directly to John Podesta, who he knows very well, and the Clinton campaign. Folks, folks, it's a rigged system, OK? It's a rigged system.Then they say, oh, isn't that terrible when Donald Trump, you know, like -- it's a rigged system. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption.It includes a ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for American elections. I think we can keep them out. We have enough problems with our elections, let's keep them out.My plan also includes a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.I want the entire corruption Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we all have to say -- we all. And by the way, folks, I'm a messenger, I'm just a messenger. This is a movement like they've never seen. By the way, I have been an effective messenger, in all fairness, but that also.But I'm a messenger, I'm a messenger.When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington, D.C. and we are going to drain the swamp.Believe me. I told people, you know, over the last week- and-a-half ago that came out. I said I can't say that, that is so hokey.I said I'm not going to say it. Anyway, so a week-and-a-half ago I said it. The place went crazy. I said, whoa. Then I said it at the next meeting, we had a tremendous rally someplace, and I said it. And the place went totally crazy.And then I said it again, same thing, and then I said to myself, boy, I'm glad I thought of that expression, that's a great expression.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.Here's a fact that's so hard to even fathom. America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed deal. And I have to say about China, I do a lot of business with China, I do a lot of business with China. We can do great with China. And I don't disrespect them, I'm not angry at them because they've taken advantage of our country, I'm angry at our leaders for allowing them to do it.Our leaders have allowed them to manipulate their currency, devalue their currency. They're masters, they're grand masters. Nobody's ever done it like China. Others do it. Japan does it brilliantly also, but nobody's ever done to us what China has. And we have -- the biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in Manhattan, it's a China bank. It's the number-one bank in the world. And I do business with China in the Bank of America building in San Francisco through China and so many things. And dealing with China is fine. But you have to have people that are knowing what they're doing because what China has done to our country, they have taken our money, they have taken our jobs, they make our product and we owe them $1.6 trillion. That's sort of amazing, right? They take our money and we owe them. So that'll all change.And you know the amazing thing? Now in the South China Sea they're building a massive, massive fortress, probably like nobody's ever seen, right in the middle of the sea. And I don't think they asked for environmental impact statements, do you? Do you think they went through the two-year review period?You know what they went through? About a 15-minute review period. But they're building right in the middle of the South China Sea. They shouldn't be doing that. And we treat them very well because we let them do all these things that we could stop very easily.And by the way, we have tremendous power, but we don't know how to use it. So we're going to get along better with China. We're going to get along better with Mexico, what Mexico is doing to us, between the border and the kind of trade deficits we have with Mexico. And by the way, so many other countries. We're going to be the smart people again. We're going to be the smart people again.We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, we really are. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Florida.The theft of American prosperity will end. They're taking away our wealth. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and we will stand up to product dumping, unfair subsidies and currency manipulation. And we'll win, we'll win. It won't even be hard.We will end the foreign cheating and protect every last American job.We will also immediately stop the job-killing Transpacific Partnership that Hillary Clinton would love.That'll be the end of your jobs completely. That's a disaster, certainly the way it's structured is a total disaster.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We will also cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations.And we will use that money for American, and it's so important, for American environmental infrastructure. We want, folks, we want clean air, crystal, we want clean water, crystal. I want crystal- clean water, clean air. We want safety. Beyond that, that's what we want. The rest of the world, they take our money, they laugh at us. Our businesses can no longer compete because some of the restrictions. We want clean air, we want clean water, we want safety. We spend billions and billions of dollars.And we'll be replacing, unless you don't want to do it, the 3- Mile Bridge. Do you want to do that? Do you care? Because if you don't care, let's save the money, OK? Should we do it or not? Tell me, should we do it?Well, you're more excited about building the wall, that I can see.And we will unleash the power of American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal. We're going to put our miners back to work. And we're going to put our steelworkers back to work.We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees...... and virtually unlimited immigration from the most dangerous places in the world to come into our country. Her plan would mean generations of terrorism, radicalism and extremism spreading in your schools and throughout your communities. When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country, I can tell you that. We've got enough problems.We have enough problems. And you know what? We all have a heart and we see what's going on, the world is unbelievable what's happening. And we'll build safe havens and we'll get the money from the Gulf states, they have so much money they don't know what to do with it and they haven't exactly been putting up. So we'll get the money from -- we owe $20 trillion. If you don't mind, I'm going to low-key it a little bit, OK? Does that sound OK to everybody?But we'll get the money to the area. We'll get it over there. And we'll build safe havens.I think he's on our side, that guy, right? I always say, friend or foe? Usually it's friend, other than the ones that the Clintons hired, the thugs, right, for $1,500 apiece.Did you see the guy who was in charge of that program? Visited the White House, like, 344 times. Did you see that?He visited the White House, I think it was 344 times, right? But he said, yeah, but I only saw the president 44 times. Oh, well, that's OK. So I'm sure the president didn't know anything about the violence, right? And he's got to stop campaigning for Crooked Hillary. He's got to go back, go to the office and he's got to produce jobs and he's got to help the military build up. I mean, depleted. He's got to look at the borders. I mean, this guy, all he wants to do is campaign for Hillary, it's unbelievable. I think he may be hurting her more.Look, the bottom line is nobody wants four more years of Obama.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build what? We're going to build the wall.And here's a little quiz. I'm sure you're never going to be able to guess this. Who is going to pay for the wall?How did you guess? They don't know it yet, but they're paying for the wall.We received the first-ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers, a tremendous number of people, first time they've ever done it.The immigration officers warned that Hillary's plan is the most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history and that it will "lead to the loss of thousands and thousands of lives." That's a quote. As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed many, many people, the most dangerous and violent criminals, aliens, to go free because their home countries intelligently said we don't want them back and we're not going to take them back. So our guys would be over, they'd bring them there, they'd say we don't want them, we're not taking them, get out. And she'd accept them back and then put them on the streets. And you know what's happened, you know what's happened.I promise you this, whether it's four years or eight years, not once, when we bring criminals back to a country, not once will that country say take them back. Not once, believe me.Not once.Hillary wants totally open borders, there goes your country, and has pledged mass amnesty in her first 100 days. Very unfair to all of the people that want to come in. And by the way, I want people to come in. I want tremendous numbers of people to come in. And we're going to have that big, beautiful door in the wall. But you know what? They have to come in through a process, they have to come in legally.They have to come in legally. And we'll have merit involved, too. Wouldn't it be nice if we went a little bit on the merit system, we take people that are really going to help us grow our country? Wouldn't that be nice?Somebody said you can't say that, that's not politically correct. Well, I just said it, folks.Hillary strongly supports sanctuary cities, like San Francisco...... where incredible Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant who had been deported as least five times. A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.We will end illegal immigration, keep the drugs from pouring into our communities and deport all criminal aliens from our country. We will also fully eliminate the Obama-Clinton defense cuts and completely rebuild our badly depleted military, which we desperately need.That includes brand-new, modern aircraft for Pensacola Naval Air Station. Wouldn't that be nice for your great, young pilots?And we will always ensure that the Blue Angels -- I love the Blue Angels...... continue to inspire our nation, the Blue Angels. I mean, those guys are serious fliers. I never quite -- when the wings are that -- I never quite got it, but they have great talent, no different than anything else. They're great, they're blessed with great, great talent.We will also build the 350-ship Navy that our country has been asking for and our admirals have been asking for.And we'll have an active duty Army of 540,000 troops.Our military policy will be based on three very important words: Peace through strength.We don't want to use it. We want to have it, we don't want to use it. We do have to get rid of ISIS, folks, but we don't want to use it other than that.I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients, and a lot more coming. A lot more coming.Our new foreign policy will put America First. Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria and Libya. She empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS. You ever notice where she says we will fight ISIS, during the debates? You know, then she walks out, and not good, not good. She left, wasn't good. But she's going to fight ISIS; she's the one that let it start. So ISIS started as nothing, then Obama called it the junior varsity, you remember, and now it's in 32 countries. And she's going to stop it? Next, Hillary wants to start a shooting war in the Syrian conflict with a nuclear-armed opponent named Russia, that could seriously lead over Syria to World War III. And Putin does not like her and she is just not respected.That was quite funny. The woman screams, "We don't like her either!"Who said that? That's pretty cool. Who said it? You? You look so innocent, I can't believe it. Wow, we don't like her either. No, we need strength.Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East, wars that we never win, wars that just cause death destruction. We never win. We don't win anymore. We don't win with wars. We don't win with trade. We don't win. We're going to start winning again like you haven't won in a long time.And now the Middle East, after spending this $6 trillion -- $6 trillion, we could have rebuilt our country twice -- and now the Middle East is in worse shape than it's ever been before. It's a mess. I mean, it's not even, it's not even, it's far worse than it ever was. They've dragged us into these endless foreign wars that have made us much less safe. They've left our borders wide open at home and they've shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries.To all Americans I say it's time immediately for new leadership, it is.And just in closing, think, think we're all leaders, we're all doing this together.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. It's a great honor to be with you tonight, I have to tell you. This is a great area. This is an amazing area. Somebody said, oh, that's Trump all the way, that whole area. I love this area. This is an amazing area.They did a poll of your area and I'll tell you we are through the roof.In fact, I have to be honest, my geniuses said, Mr. Trump, sir, don't come there, everyone's voting for you there. You don't need to go there, you've got their vote. I said that's why I want to go there. Don't you want to reward people for being your friend, right?Don't go there? I want to go here. It's true. See, people forget, you know, it's one of those things. I want to be here. This is -- I think you people are amazing. You built this country, folks. You built this country.Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We're going to massively cut taxes for the working and middle-class Americans. Hillary is going to raise your taxes substantially, by the way. It's right there.We will eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We will cancel illegal and, you know, it's crazy, the illegal Obama executive orders. They're all over the place. They're pretty bad.We will rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans.We are going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core, bring our education local.We will support the great men and women of law enforcement. I met a lot of them backstage. We'll save our Second Amendment which is totally under siege. Got to get out and vote, that's a big thing.The National Rifle Association gave me their earliest endorsement that they've ever given. And Wayne and Chris and all of the people there, I want to tell you folks, people can dispute, people can argue, but they love this country. The National Rifle Association, and I know the top people, they love this country, they really do. They love the country, so just remember that. When people go after them and, you know, so often, but they really do have a great love.And I want to appoint and we're going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.She's the candidate of yesterday, we are the movement of the future.We're asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, independents and first-time voters of which we have a lot of them, I'm telling you. We have a lot.All you have to do is look at those long, beautiful lines all over Florida and you're going to see a lot of them have hats that have a little phrase, right? What does that phrase say? "Make America great." Those lines are long and there's -- by the way, last poll has us up four, but I think they really know it's much higher than that, you know. They don't even have to poll now, all they have to do is look at the lines, right? They don't want to do that.We're asking all Americans to join this incredible movement. We're fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.We're fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hopes and prays and yearns for a much better future. We're going to bring back our jobs, folks. We're going to bring back our jobs.I'm asking you to dream big because with your vote we are just, do you believe this, six days away. Six days.Six days. I started this in June, June 16th of last year. It seemed like it would take forever. Of course, you know, the pundits all said Donald Trump has no chance, he's got no experience at this.Well, every once in a while some of them that knew us, they'd say be careful what you wish for. A couple of them said it, I won't mention their names, but I was complimented. They said be careful. And then one by one, right, one by one by one by one. And then we have some great people. Ben Carson has been so incredible.So many, Chris Christie has been great. But we have great support. Mike Huckabee, I watched him on television the other day, he's been so great.No, no, we have great support. We have great support. But one by one, now we're only left with one person, Crooked Hillary Clinton. We're going to win. We're going to win.So we're just six days away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life. Together we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again, and...That's right, we will make America great again!Thank you, God bless you, everybody. God bless you!Great crowd, thank you very much, thank you very much.In five days, we are going to win the great state of Florida, and we are going to win back the White House.Just out a few minutes ago, the new Rasmussen Poll has up 3 up right now, 3 up nationwide.We're leading in Florida, we're leading in Ohio, we're leading in Iowa, I think we're leading in North Carolina.Which is big. Doing well in Pennsylvania right there, but we are leading all over. I tell you what, we are going to have something that's going to be very special, get out there on Tuesday, don't fail. Who has already voted by the way?That's pretty good. It's about 82 percent.Got to vote. We're on the cusp of something that's so amazing, it's historic change, a transfer of power from a failed political establishment. We're going to return that power to you, the American people.There is more breaking news that I'd like to share with you right now.It was reported last night that the FBI is conducting a criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton's ---- pay for play corruption during her tenure as Secretary of State. In other words, the FBI is investigating how Hillary Clinton put the office of Secretary of State up for sale in violation of federal law.The investigation is described as a high priority.It's far-reaching, and has been going on for more than one year. It was reported that an avalanche of information is coming in.The FBI agents say their investigation is likely to yield an indictment.But just remember, the system is rigged, just remember that.And reports also show the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying to protect Hillary Clinton, and is interfering with the FBI's criminal investigation.By comparison, four-star general just last week, James Cartwright, highly respected, is in very serious trouble for doing a tiny fraction of what Clinton did, may go to jail for up to five years. Think of it, General Cartwright, last week, four-star general, respected by everybody, a tiny, tiny fraction, may go to jail for now five years. And General Petraeus' life and reputation has been destroyed for doing nothing, nothing by comparison to what Hillary Clinton did. She shouldn't even be allowed to run for the office of president.She shouldn't be allowed. And that is where the system is rigged. She shouldn't be allowed. It was also reported that the laptops of Clinton's top aides, which had been slated for destruction, were not in fact destroyed. Good job by the FBI.And that the FBI has been successfully using them to gather information for their criminal investigation.Further, they have found new emails as part of the 650,000 emails just recently found. Can you imagine 650,000? See, what do these people do? No wonder nothing gets done in government, 650.Finally it is believed that no less than five foreign intelligence agencies successfully hacked into Clinton's illegal insecure server, which contained classified information, creating an ongoing security threat to the United States.Think of what happened to so many people for doing so little by comparison, think of it.Hillary Clinton has engaged in a massive, far-reaching criminal conduct, and equally far-reaching cover-up. She created an illegal email server to shield and guard her activity, so simple, so simple. Shoulda happened a long time ago, folks. Now we're going through phase two, which sounds like it's even worse than phase one. Shoulda happened in phase one. But she was protected by the Department of Justice.She illegally transmitted confidential information, and then lied about it to Congress. She illegally destroyed federal records, including 33,000 emails, after receiving a congressional subpoena.And she made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.Who in this room has gotten rid of a phone, and then smashed the hell out of it with a hammer, anybody? Raise your hand, please. Raise your hand. I see one hand over there. I see a hand there. What business are you in? I want to know. No, I don't wanna know, I don't wanna know. I don't wanna meet him.She engaged in corrupt pay for play at the State Department for personal enrichment, she lied to the FBI and she lied to the American people many, many times.Remember she lied 39 times, I don't recall, I don't recall. Well those are all lies, because she recalled every one of them. These are sad events for our country, a high-ranking government official has been caught selling her public office, threatening national security, and engaging in a massive criminal cover-up. If she were to win, it would create unprecedented constitutional crisis.Here we go again with Clinton, you remember the impeachment, and the problems? She's likely to be under investigation for many, many years, also likely to conclude in a criminal trial. This is not what we need in this country, folks. We need somebody that's going to go to work to bring our jobs back, to take care of our military, to strengthen up our borders.This is not what we need, it's going to be a mess. And they say it, they say it. This is going to be a mess for many years to come before they figure it all out. We don't need that. We need a president that's gonna go in and do their job.And I just left, by the way, Miami. And in leaving, I see Air Force One. So I said to myself I wonder who that could be.And it's our president.And he's down here campaigning for Crooked Hillary.Now why, why isn't he back in the office, sometimes referred to as the Oval Office? Why isn't he back in the White House bringing our jobs back?And helping our veterans?Right? Why, why isn't he back working? He's campaigning every day, and I actually think considering that she is under criminal investigation, I think he's actually got a conflict.And one of the things it taught us, WikiLeaks, he knew she had a lot of wrong things going on, you know that. That also came out, Obama knew what was going on by the way, just in case you didn't know, he knew. This guy oughta be back in the office working, he's not gonna be there very long, thank goodness. But he oughta be back in the office working.We don't win anymore as a country, we don't win with our military, we don't win on trade. This guy oughta get back to the office and stop campaigning.If we win on November 8th, we will once again have a government of, by, and for the people.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.It's just been announced that the residents of Florida are going to experience a massive, double-digit premium hike. Who's got their number yet? Does anybody know?Should I tell you? Do you want me to depress everybody? You just put your head down, start crying, and leave. I won't tell you. I don't want to tell you. You know why? Because if I do, you'll be so depressed, I don't like people leaving a speech early, crying.You're not going to like it, folks. In the great state of Arizona though, as an example, premiums are going up more than 116 percent, and it doesn't work. Obamacare doesn't work. I'm repealing it, we're gonna replace it with something so much better, and so much cheaper.Hillary's going to double up. Over 90 percent of the counties in Florida are losing Obamacare insurance next year, think of it. Good luck in that negotiation. In Minnesota where the premium entries will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor said the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Oh, did he take heat, him and Bill Clinton. Did Bill Clinton take heat?He said it's crazy, Obamacare, he said it's crazy. They lied to us. The president lied to us 28 times. He said you can keep your doctor, you can keep your plan, remember, he kept lying and lying and lying.Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are leaving, and deductibles are through the roof, sometimes $15,000. In other words you have to spend $15,000 before you start using it.Obamacare is a total catastrophe, yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, she doesn't want to terminate it, she doesn't want to get rid of it. She wants to double down, making it much more expensive than it is right now, and it's right now ridiculous.It's your number one cost right now, bigger than your mortgage, it's bigger than your rent. First time that's ever happened. I'm asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare, and save healthcare for every family in Florida and our country.So important. Real change also means restoring honesty to government. Hillary was given the debate questions in advance by Donna Brazile, by the way.Can you imagine if those questions, because the dishonest media -- among the world's dishonest people by the way.It's not even a big story. Mainstream media hardly covers it. They hardly talk. Think about it, she got the debate questions against Bernie Sanders, probably got the ones against me too, but we won that debate very easily, those debates.We won those debates.I don't care if she got 'em. Except that it shows how dishonest. But think of this. Supposing I got the debate questions, it would be front page of the Washington Post. It would be front page of the New York Times. He must immediately withdraw from the race. What he did is disgraceful. I'll tell you what, they don't even write about it. So Donna Brazile was fired from CNN.That's good. But why wasn't she fired from the DNC? Because what she did was totally dishonest. Did you see her on television the other night? She couldn't answer uh, well, where did he get 'em? Where did he get 'em? Where did you get 'em?She's going, that's the questioner was asking that. Where did you get those questions? Where did you get 'em? Well, uh, I got 'em, well, I got 'em -- I don't know where I got 'em. I tell you what, she should be fired, she should be fired, but much more importantly, Hillary Clinton should be fired.Hillary Clinton.Because Donna Brazile couldn't answer the questions, she looked like a fool on television, but she couldn't answer the questions. But you know what was worse? She took the questions, and gave 'em to Crooked Hillary.That's cheating, and Crooked Hillary instead of saying I'm sorry, I can't accept them, we have to report this incident, she took the questions, went in, and had good answers for Bernie. At some point doesn't Bernie Sanders get tired of it? They're calling him all these names, they're cheating on him. Doesn't he tell his supporters to go vote for Trump at some point, right?And I haven't seen one story where Hillary Clinton -- they blame Donna Brazile a little bit, very little. But seriously, can you imagine if it was me that got those questions?You know what I've been saying, they would re-institute the electric chair, right? Front page news, front page news. She's a very dishonest person, probably the most dishonest person ever to run for the office of president, I really believe -- I believe that.The Clintons are the sordid past, and someday they'll start writing about these dishonest people back there. Someday they will ask the question, and they will do a front page headline, why didn't Hillary Clinton report that she got the confidential guarded questions to a debate? And someday these dishonest people are going to write a story about it in mainstream media.But we're the bright future. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption.We understand that. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we all have to say, we, all of us. It's a lot of us. There's a lot of us. This is a movement they've never seen this before in this country. That's why we don't want to blow it now, tell them, because you're allowed to vote early.But we don't want to blow it on November 8th, because this is a movement like they've never seen before, all of 'em, even the ones that dislike me, of which there are quite a few of those people, but all of 'em. This is a movement like they've never seen in the country.But it will end quickly. It will end quickly if we don't go out to vote on November 8th. So let's not let it end, let's keep it, because we're going to make America great again, folks.We're going to make America great again.When we win on November 8th, we are going to Washington D.C., and we are going to drain?The?Swamp!Right. At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs, they've been stolen.Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary.America has lost 70,000, listen to that number, I thought it was a typo, for weeks I've been saying it, 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed deal. We're going to get 'em back, folks, don't worry.We're living through the greatest job theft in the history of the world, it's what it is, greatest -- think of it, greatest job theft in the history of the world. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, and we will stop the jobs from leaving the state of Florida, I can tell you, quickly, very quickly.It is hot in this room, but you know what, that's OK. We lose a couple of pounds, not the worst thing in the world, right? From now on it's going to be America First.A Trump administration will negotiate NAFTA, and we will stand up to foreign product dumping, currency manipulation, and all unfair subsidy behavior, which is a lot.We will also immediately stop the job-killing Transpacific Partnership, a disaster, another disastrous potential deal.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We will also cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations, billions and billions of dollars.And use that money to support America's environmental and national infrastructure.By the way, folks, we're sending billions and billions of dollars, we're making our companies non-competitive, other companies are -- throughout the world are killing us, and other countries don't adhere to whatever they're supposed to do. But we're sending all of this money. Here's what we want. We want crystal clean water.We want immaculately clean air.And we want great safety.Above that, folks, let's go to town, and let's employ a lot of people.We will become a rich nation once again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.In Chicago, 3,715 people have been shot since January 1st. Think of that, think of that, almost 4,000 people. 4,000 people have been shot since January 1st.Nationwide murders have experienced their largest single- year increase in 45 years. Now the press doesn't tell you that, because the press is guarding Hillary Clinton, and the press doesn't want them, and doesn't want you to know the real facts about your jobs, about all of the things -- about our military, which is now bogged down in Mosul.Remember I said why can't we ever like go in there quietly, secretly, and do the job, right?Remember I said the element of surprise, and they came, oh, what does Trump know about -- I know plenty, believe me. They're bogged down, it's a tough situation. Four months ago, we're going into Mosul. I kept saying every time I turn the television off, I say oh, why do they have to say it?We're going to get the leaders of ISIS. We're going -- and it's four months. We're going in, because we believe the leaders of ISIS are in Mosul. Four months -- three months ago. We are going into Mosul, we're gonna get those leaders. Problem is, after we said it the first time, within about 12 minutes they were gone.We are led by stupid people, remember that, stupid people.Stupid people.Wouldn't it be nice if we didn't talk? We did the job, and you had the news conference a week later, wouldn't that be nice?We will also keep you safe from terrorism.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees coming in to the country.They'll be pouring into the country. That's above Obama's unbelievable thousands and thousands coming in. Her plan would mean generations of terrorism and extremism spreading across our schools and your communities. And that's one of the reasons we have all those Women for Trump signs, OK? Believe me.The women don't want this. And by the way, I have to tell you, I think I have tremendous support from women, tremendous, very tremendous.Look, we have tremendous support.We're going to keep our country safe. You know, they say well what will you do for women? I say start off with we're going to keep our country safe, is that good? Is that a good starter?I think we're going to do tremendously with women. We're doing tremendously with African-Americans, you see that. You see what's going on, you see it.You see what's going on. They're very -- you know these characters in the back, they're very discouraged because all these lines, people with hats on saying Make America Great, buttons, shirts.But big reports about tremendous support from groups that I was not supposed to have as much support from. It's throwing -- it's throwing them a little bit off balance, they're not happy. They're not happy. The protected one is not being very well protected.When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program, and we will keep --We will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country, OK? Believe me, we'll keep 'em out.And we'll build safe havens, and we'll do things over in Syria, we'll get other countries to pay for it. We have $20 trillion in debt, but we'll get the Gulf states, they have a lot of money, they got a tremendous money, they'll pay for it, I promise.Because we have to take care of people, but honestly, we have enough -- hey folks, we have enough problems in this country. Look at what's happening to Germany, look at what's happening to France, look at Paris.I have a friend, every year he goes to Paris, I haven't seen him in a while. Paris, oh, the city of lights, he used to tell me. For years, Paris, Paris. I see him like a month ago, how was Paris this summer? Oh, I don't go to Paris, you kidding me?It's no longer Paris. He hasn't been there in a long time. We're gonna have our country be great again, folks, OK? We're gonna to have smartness.We're gonna do it -- we're gonna do it properly. We're gonna do it properly. We're gonna -- we're gonna do it through love, we're gonna do it in a lot of different ways, but we're gonna have our country be great. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.And yes, we will build a great wall.And Mexico, which is making a fortune with us, just a fortune, at the border, and through trade deficits, our trade deficit with Mexico is enormous, just in case you -- well, it's enormous with everybody, why should they be any different in all fair -- Mexico will pay for the wall, OK, believe me, they will pay for the wall.100 percent.They might not know it yet, but they're paying for the wall. We received the first ever endorsement from our ICE and border patrol officers.They tell us the border crisis is the worst it's ever been, it's a national emergency. The immigration officers warned in a letter that Hillary Clinton's plan is the most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history, and that it will lead to the loss of thousands and thousands of lives, that's what they wrote us.As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed many, many people, the most dangerous and violent criminals in the world, to go free, because their home countries very intelligently wouldn't accept them back. So we take a killer, a drug lord, a vicious gang member, bring them back to their countries, and they'd say turn that plane around and get 'em out of there.And Hillary Clinton's State Department would say oh, well that's too bad, oh, well we'll accept 'em. And they go in our streets, and they kill people.Hillary Clinton supports -- and I guarantee you one thing --In four years or eight years, I guarantee you one thing, there won't be one instance, not one, where one of these murderers or drug people, or gang members, not one instance, folks, where that plane will come back with that person on that plane, I guarantee you that, there won't be one instance.Hillary Clinton supports totally open borders, there goes your country, and strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco, where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant who was deported at least five times.And we're putting very, very strong language in, it's going to be submitted the first day I'm in office. When they come in once, we deport 'em. When they come in twice, they go to jail for five years.When they come in another one, it'll be 10 years. And you know what's gonna happen, sort of pretty simple. They here, they get caught again, they go to jail for five years, just what's gonna happen? They're not coming back, folks.Now our people don't want to do it, our weak, weak politicians don't wanna do that. A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.We will end illegal immigration, we are going to stop drugs from pouring into your communities and poisoning our youth and everybody else.And we will deport all criminal aliens quickly from our country. We will also repeal the Obama Clinton defense sequester, and rebuild our badly depleted military.We're gonna rebuild it.Our navy is the smallest it has -- have you heard this? I mean to me, this is sad. And then you wonder why China, who's making a fortune with us, they make our product, they take our money, and they're fine, I have a great relationship, I've made a fortune with China, I had the biggest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in New York, China, biggest bank in the world from China.But you know what? You know what? They're building right now a tremendous fortress in the South China Sea. They're not supposed to be doing it, but they're doing it because they have no respect for Obama, they laugh at Hillary, they think -- they think Hillary's a joke, she's a joke.She is a joke. You know what? They dream, they dream, they go to sleep at night, these tough leaders, you know, they're tough, and smart, they're smart, and really tough. They go to dream at night, they go to sleep, and they dream that Hillary Clinton becomes president, that's what their dream is.You know, they're so -- what they're doing is such a big violation, but they have no respect for Obama, and they no longer respect our country. Our navy is the smallest it has been since World War I. We will build the 350 ship navy that our country needs, and desires, and must have.That means brand new state-of-the-art ships in places like Mayport, right here in Jacksonville.I'm honored, and this is a great honor for me, to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 medal of honor recipients.I'm also honored to have the greatest temperament that anybody has, because we know how to win.She spends $1 billion, she spends so much money, I see these ads, people that know me they say how can they say that? Now we have -- you know what, we have a temperament because -- we have a certain temperament. It's a temperament of knowing how to win. It's knowing how to win.The leaders of our country, boy, you talk about temperament, and interestingly, whether it's Podesta or Bernie Sanders, Podesta said Hillary has bad instincts, and I'll be honest, I've read the things that he has said about Hillary on the WikiLeaks. And if I were Hillary, I would fire Podesta so fast. He says such demeaning things about her, she's got bad instincts. I mean you've read some of the things. It's incredible. You know, how do you have people working for you and then you have to deal with them? And it was all behind her back, he must be a bad guy. I don't know, but to say the things he said about her, she should look at him, say Podesta, you're fired. But she can't do that. She probably needs him as a witness in the criminal case, so she can't do it.Our new foreign policy will put America First. Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya. She empowered Iran, and she unleashed ISIS. You know, she wants to get rid of ISIS, she's the one that started it, it came through the vacuum. Now it's in 32 countries.And I watched her during the debate, meekly talk about ISIS. And I said to her you've been here for 30 years, Hillary. You started ISIS. You were Secretary of State when it started. Why are you going to get rid of it? You can't get rid of anything. You don't know what you're doing.Now she wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict with a nuclear armed Russia, that could very well lead to World War III, and remember, Putin has no respect for her either, has no respect for her.Doesn't like her, doesn't respect her, doesn't respect Obama, and doesn't like him. Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East, wars we never win, and now it's in worse shape than ever before, wars we never win, folks.They've dragged us in to foreign wars that have made us lessly, and they took us, they opened up our borders. You know, it's interesting, we fight for their borders, but at home we have open borders. Try and figure that one out. We fight like hell for their borders, we spend trillions of dollars to do it, but at home we have open borders.And they've shipped our jobs on top of everything, and our wealth, to other countries. That's gotta end very quickly.Our jobs are coming back, and our companies aren't leaving. And if our companies wanna leave, there are consequences. If they wanna go to Mexico or some other country, or build a plant and make air conditioners like Carrier is doing, or build cars like Ford is doing, Ford is moving an entire mess of division down, all small car production.They wanna do that, you tell them very nicely, I'm sorry. You know, I always joke that I wanna make those calls so badly. I don't want to put anybody in charge of those calls, they're so easy.And they're short. And our politicians should have done this for years. But you tell them that when you make your air conditioner or your car, whatever it might be, you build in Mexico, enjoy the weather. When that car or that product comes through our very strong border, now it will be a very strong border, there will be a 35 percent tax.And you know what's going to happen? Nobody's going to leave, folks. Now the politicians know this, but they're all taken care of by those special interest groups that want that to happen. But there will be a 35 percent tax, and nobody's leaving.And the ones that do leave, that's OK too, we'll make a lot of money. But nobody says it. Does anybody say it like Trump, right?So simple. To all Americans, I say it's time for new leadership. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.We're going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan, and Hillary is raising taxes very substantially. She's raising your taxes. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We're going to rebuild our military, and take care of our great, great, great veterans.They've never been taken care of properly, 22 suicides a day, not gonna happen. We're gonna take care of our veterans. And I appreciate all the support I get from the military. There's a big article today on the front page of the New York Times, and they say why does Trump have support from the military? And by the way, and law enforcement. And by military I mean including big leagues, our -- our veterans, you know? How many veterans are here right now?A lot.We are going to support the great men and women of law enforcement, we're going to support 'em.We're gonna save our Second Amendment which is under siege.Great people, you know, we have the endorsement of the NRA, it's great, these are great people.The earliest they've ever given. And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States, so important, so important.It is time to cut our ties with the failed and bitter politics of the past.Hillary Clinton has been there for 30 years, and she has accomplished nothing.Just words and just made things worse.She is the candidate of yesterday. It's going to be really interesting to see what happens to her.I wonder. So let me ask you, let me ask you, she shouldn't be allowed to run based on the email scandals and all them, OK.So let me ask you this questions. I've never done this before. Will justice be done or not? Will justice be done, yes or no?Hard, right? I don't know. I don't know, I'm not sure anybody knows the answer.They're protecting her and it's very -- we are the movement of the future. Our movement represents all Americans, from all backgrounds, and all walks of life.We're asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters of which there are many.We are fighting for every American who believes in truth and justice, not money and power. I'll tell you, we are going to rule the day, this group, we are going to rule the day. This group, and many, many, many like you. Every place we go, every place we go, the love of this country is incredible.Thank you. We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors, and not the special interests. We're fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future. With your vote, we are just, can you believe this, five days away from the chance you've been waiting for your entire life.Five days away.Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you very much.Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. These are wild times.These are wild times. Wow, what a beautiful building, and place, and all these people. But honestly we always have a lot of people. They just want to see this country do the right thing again, you know that. We're going to do the right thing.We're going to be a smart country again, very soon. I want to begin by thanking my amazing wife, Melania.I don't know if anybody saw her today. She got up and gave an incredible speech and she -- she did a great job. That takes -- takes a lot of courage, takes a lot of courage.In five days we're going to win the great state of North Carolina and we are going to win back the White House.Great state, great people. And the polls have been amazing. One just came out, the Rasmussen poll. We're three points up nationwide.We're leading in Ohio, we're leading in Iowa, we're leading in Florida, we're leading in North Carolina, which is...We're leading -- just came out two minutes ago, two polls, we're leading in New Hampshire.We're sort of leading all over the place, it's a great honor -- it's a great honor, honestly. And this is not an easy thing to do, you know that. But we had to do it. You have to do it. We have to do it. We're all doing it together. So, I just want to thank you. It's like we have no choice, we have no choice.Well, hopefully, you voted or you're going to vote early, but you're going to vote. But, remember, November 8th, so important. And you get out there early, if you can. Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare, you know that.It's just been announced that the residents of North Carolina are going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike.In the great state of Arizona -- where I just left -- premiums are going up 116 percent, they're not happy. Ninety-five of 100 North Carolina counties will only have one insurer in the Obamacare exchange next year, which is a catastrophe, frankly. Lots of luck in that negotiation, by the way, folks. Don't worry about it, it'll be dead. We'll kill it and we're going to start all over again with a great one.You'll be spending a lot less money for much, much better health care, much, much less money. In Minnesota, where the premium increase will be close to 60 percent, the Democratic governor said, the Affordable Care Act is no longer affordable. Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, and deductibles are through the roof. You know, some people have 15, $16,000 deductible. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.It'll be much more expensive.Did you ever see anything like what's going on right now? If we don't get rid of Obamacare, it will destroy health care in North Carolina and all over the United States, it will be the end. I'm asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in North Carolina, and frankly in the United States.That's what the reports say. However, it was also reported that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying to protect Hillary Clinton.Telling FBI agents to stand down, and is interfering in the FBI's criminal investigation.Hillary Clinton is engaged in far-reaching criminal conduct and in an equally far-reaching criminal cover up, including the destruction of 33,000 emails, after receiving -- after -- after, can you imagine? Can you imagine if I did that? They would say, he must immediately leave this race. Oh, boy. Thirty-three thousand emails were deleted after receiving a Congressional subpoena. That alone, folks -- that's not the new group; that's the old group. That alone is big problems, for which she got away with murder. Honestly, she has no right to be running, you know that. No right.But now she's got bigger problems. If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented Constitutional crisis that would cripple the operations of our government. She is likely to be under investigation for many years, and also it will probably end up -- in my opinion -- in a criminal trial. I mean, you take a look. Who knows? But it certainly looks that way, certainly being spoken of.Americans deserve a government that can work and really has to work for them from day one, we'll do that. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption.The plan includes a Constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of Congress.It also includes a lifetime ban on government officials becoming lobbyists for a foreign government. I'd say that makes senses.That sort of makes sense, right? I think so. Makes sense? I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and heed the words we -- we, as a group -- all say right now, when we win on November 8th, we're going to Washington, and we are going to drain the swamp.We're going to drain the swamp. At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back your jobs that have been taken away.They've been taken away. North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary.The worst trade deal ever signed in the history of the world, believe me. America has lost -- I never believe number when I give it -- but America's lost 70,000 factories -- 70,000. You wouldn't think it's possible. Seventy thousand factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster. We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, we are. Nobody has every lost jobs like we do. Defective contracts, negotiated by political hacks.We have the greatest business people, greatest negotiators in the world in this country, we don't use them. We use political hacks that gave a contribution or a campaign contribution. They end up getting jobs. This is who's dealing with China, with -- how about Iran? How about the new Iran deal done by....Started by -- started by Hillary Clinton, and finished off by our great bicyclist, our great bicycle racer.He's in a bicycle race. He breaks his leg in the middle of the negotiation. I promise you, I will never enter a bicycle race. I promise. I swear, I swear.I now have nearly -- and think of this one, 'cause I can't even believe it -- we have an 800 -- almost -- $800 billion a year annual trade deficit with the world. OK? Eight hundred billion. Who's negotiating these deals? Who's -- who's negotiating these deals? Don't worry, it'll change -- it'll change. We've got Carl Icahn, we've got the greatest negotiators in the world, it'll change so fast. And these guys -- I have some of the best business leaders in the world. They do it for sport, they don't want money, they -- they'll do it for sport.The same special interests who shipped the jobs out of America are the people who've given hundreds of millions of dollars to Hillary Clinton.Now, I just got back from Florida. I was begging for like a regular commercial, Ivory Snow, Heinz ketchup, every commercial was a hit on Trump, hit, hit, hit. And almost all of them were untrue. Some were pretty good, actually. But the most negative -- it's horrible, and really I mean so much fabrication.When you see the rusted out factories and empty buildings here, just remember Hillary Clinton's policies and the policies of her people did this to you. Just look at the devastation. Pillowtex laid off 1,125 people, and took their jobs to Mexico and other countries. Freightliner, one of your companies, laid off 500 people in Mount Holly, and moved their jobs to Mexico.You know, Mexico, I was there three months ago. I met with the President of Mexico, nice guy, really good. We'll have a great relationship. But Mexico's like a one-way street. It's a one -- they take the money, the jobs, the factories. You know, we get drugs and unemployment is what we get. Flextronics...All right. It's a little early in this speech, but I promise, we will build the wall, believe me.Little early. I wasn't up to that part but, you know what, I won't be able to shut you up unless I say that, right? We will build the wall and what? Mexico will pay for the wall.Flextronics laid off 312 workers in Charlotte and moved their jobs to Mexico and China and various other countries. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, there will be consequences.And we will stop the jobs, because you people have been affected much more than most, from leaving North Carolina. And I have great successful place in North Carolina, in Charlotte, right outside of Charlotte. Right? Trump National, it's great. Lot of employees, I pay them a fortune, they're very happy. They do an unbelievable job. It's a real success.Look at this -- look at this. My members, I have members, I have -- good. Do I do a good job? Do I do a good job?Wow, that's fantastic, thank you.That's so nice. I didn't know that. Sort of interesting. I bought it for very little. I didn't, you know, I just -- I bought it out of a bankruptcy, it's this gorgeous job. They did a good job, but they -- they got caught. And I fixed it, ii spent a lot of money on it, right? I fixed it, and now it's so successful and everybody loves it. She said, on schedule, under budget.It's true, it's true. Thank you.She's right about that. That's good. Well, it's great to have you here. Thank you very much.You know, it's a great success, and it's just a great state. You know, it's very interesting, so I have a lot of workers, they're all over the country. And when I buy things -- though I don't think I'm going to doing this too much longer, I'm going to be running something else much more important.But these workers, they travel. They're all over and they travel to different place, even to different countries. They're great, they're crews. And they'll come in, and they came to North Carolina. And I said, how'd you do, Felix? How'd you do, Leo? How are you? How's it going? They said, Mr. Trump, when we retire, we want to come to North Carolina. They loved it, it's funny, they never said that.They've been to so many different places. So there's something about North Carolina that's special, and that area, that is so good. So we love it.And you know what's going to happen, right? They're not leaving. They won't leave. When that happens, they will not leave. And if they do, that's OK too, 'cause we're going to make a fortune, all right? Although their formula won't work -- their formula won't work. It's so simple to do, it's so simple to stop. And these people haven't wanted to do it. A lot of reasons. Number one, in some cases they're not smart. But in other cases, they're getting so much money from the special interests and the donors that want it to happen because they may own the company, etcetera, etcetera, that they're not looking for the best interest of our company. And you know what, I'm going to have over $100 million in this campaign. I don't care about these people.You know, the special interests? I used to be the ultimate special interest. I mean in all fairness, I know the other side very well. I also love our country, and our country was going bad. It was going bad. No more deals with Iran where we give them $150 billion back.Where we give them $1.7 billion in cash. How about that one? You know what that would be? That's like you fill it up to the ceiling. I tell you what, it's hard to believe, so -- so we did this and we're happy we did it. And we've created a movement, remember this, like nobody has ever seen in this country before, ever.Newt Gingrich was on and he was talking, well, if you go back 150 years, there was a movement. You know, I'm saying, 150 years. But it's -- it's been a great honor, I have to tell you. It's been a great honor and a great pleasure, and I've gotten to know the people of this country, and they are unbelievable.They're unbelievable, right? They're unbelievable people. And we're going to -- and I say it every once in a while, we're going to have Apple and other great companies start making their product in the United States. OK?We're going to do it. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and, if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers, much better. And by the way, just to set the record straight because the crooked media -- you talk about dishonest people, these are the world's most dishonest people. I believe in free trade -- they have a very low rating right now, folks. Hopefully, I've helped in that.You could have done the greatest thing in the world, it's like this total thing -- I'm looking forward tomorrow to read those newspapers, or I'm looking forward to seeing it on television. Something you do really, really well. And then you see it and they say, man, that was bad. Boy, they made that look bad, you know. They are bad people, I'll tell you that.And they try so hard, they try so hard to protect Hillary Clinton. And you know what? I think the gig is up. I don't think it's working any more, don't think it's working.No, it's not working too good. We will also immediately stop the job-killing Transpacific Partnership. That's going to take the rest of your companies out. As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We're the highest taxed nation in the world. And we're going to massively cut taxes for the middle class. Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes. How can you do it? We're the highest taxed nation in the world. She wants to raise taxes. Not going to happen, folks. We're going to create something that's so beautiful. The biggest since Ronald Reagan -- biggest tax decrease. We will also unleash American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas, and clean coal. We're going to put our miners back to work, and we're going to put our steel workers back to work. Our plan will end the EPA, which is a -- hey, look, it's all wonderful, but it's a disaster. EPA intrusion into your family farms and stop the double taxation of family farms at death. You can't even pass them down to your children. You can't pass small businesses down to your children.Very importantly, we will also work to rebuild from the damage, in your great state, caused by Hurricane Matthew, that was a rough one. We will take care of our people. We're going to take care of the people of the United States. We will become a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees flowing into our country.Not going to happen. Her plan would mean generations of terrorism and extremism spreading in your schools and throughout your communities. When I'm elected President, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.Sorry, we have no choice. We have no choice. Right?A Trump administration...Great people.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.Be nice, right? Be nice. It would be nice to have borders, don't you think, right? And we will build the wall, as I -- we will build it.It'll be a great wall. And the harder they fight, the taller it gets, OK? I give you that, I'm telling you. The harder they fight, the tougher it gets. You know, they tried to build a wall in like '06. You know that. And Hillary Clinton was in favor of it. And they couldn't get -- you won't even believe this story -- they couldn't get their environmental impact statement approved. Did you know that?So here you have China in the South China Sea, building one of the great, one of the biggest fortresses anywhere in the world, ripping the hell out of the sea. Excavators, they say the biggest ever used, ripping the sea. They conceived of the idea -- listen to that.You OK back there?Say, whoa.But China has no respect for us, and Russia has no respect for us, and certainly no respect. Putin has no respect for Hillary Clinton. He dreams -- he dreams of her becoming president. You know who else dreams of Hillary Clinton? ISIS. Because ISIS formed while she was secretary of State in the vacuum that they left. We should have never been in Iraq, but we should have never gotten out the way we got out. And that's -- that was the birth of ISIS, now they're in 32 countries.And I watched her during debates, the debates -- did you see she had the debate questions to the other debate. Right?How about if Donald Trump had the debate questions? Right? The electric chair, right? Headlines, Trump to leave race. We demand Trump get out now. They had Donna Brazile...She cheated. Did you see her on television? She was unable to speak. Where did you get those questions? But she cheated, and they fired her from CNN, which they should have. But why aren't they firing her from the DNC? She cheated. Now, but -- but I have a much bigger question, 'cause forget Donna Brazile. She gave the questions to Crooked Hillary Clinton, right? So -- and this is two or three times, don't forget, they caught them like twice. So they gave the questions, she gave them to Crooked Hillary. Why didn't Hillary Clinton report it? Why didn't Hillary Clinton go to some ethics group?Right, very simple. Very simple. Crooked Hillary.And then she does these phony commercials about me, this and that, give me a break Crooked Hillary. We received the first ever endorsement from our ICE and border patrol office. First time they've ever endorsed a presidency.They tell us the border crisis is the worst it's ever been, and I can see that. Although a lot of people are probably flowing in because they think I'm going to win, so they say, we better get this done right now. The immigration officers warned in a letter that Hillary's plan is the most radical immigration proposal in United States history. And that it will lead to the loss of thousands of lives, I see that. It's the most radical immigration plan in history.As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed many, many of the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free because their home countries, very intelligently, would not take then back. They didn't want killers, they didn't want drug lords, they didn't want gang members. So we fly them into their country, and their country says turn that plane around -- or whatever they're taking them in. Get out of here, we don't want them, can't blame them. But I promise you that never once -- whether it's four years or eight years -- never once -- never once will we come back with somebody in that plane or whatever it may be. When those people get out, they're getting out.And they've hurt a lot of people. Hillary wants totally open borders, there goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco...... where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant, who had been deported probably more than five times. In nearby Landis, North Carolina, 20-year-old, Leanna Newman and her unborn child were killed by an illegal immigrant drunk driver with two prior deportations. Leanna's killer had two pair of DUI convictions, three convictions for driving with a revoked license, a conviction for assault, and numerous other charges. And people that knew him said, please incarcerate him. A Trump administration will impose tough mandatory minimum prison sentences for deported illegal immigrants.Sort of simple. It's amazing what common sense can do, isn't it? We will also cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.And this crime wave, it's a tremendous crime wave, will come to an end. We will repeal Obama-Clinton defense sequester, and rebuild our badly depleted military, which we need so much.Greatest people on Earth in our military. North Carolina will be a major part of this effort, with new advanced flying beautiful planes. Isn't it nice to have nice, new planes? From Seymour Johnson Air Force Base, anybody know it? Yes.Marine battalions at Camp Lejeune -- I've been to Camp Lejeune.And more troops and resources we will supply for Fort Bragg.I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. So we have many more coming.They're not thrilled with Hillary, that I can tell you. Our new foreign policy will put America First. Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya, she empowered Iran, and she unleashed ISIS with the vacuum -- through the vacuum, they came. Remember, Obama called them the junior varsity? Now she wants to start a shooting war in Syria, in conflict with a nuclear armed Russia, that could trigger World War III. She always talks about me.See what I have is a winning temperament, I have a winning temperament.Hillary is an unstable person. She is an -- I think she's probably spent $500 million on phony ads. The best thing I have is my temperament. We know how to win -- we know how to win.You got to know why you want to win too, she has no idea. And she doesn't win. We don't win any more as a country. We don't win at trade, we don't win with our military -- we can't beat ISIS -- we can't beat ISIS. ISIS will be defeated quickly, you watch.And when we go in an attack a Mosul, if we have to do it -- which we shouldn't because if we got out the right way, we already had Mosul. And I've been complaining for four months, from the time I heard it. We will be attacking Mosul in four months. I said, no, don't tell me that, maybe they're not meaning it. The element of surprise, folks. And you see how tough it is now.We're going to be attacking Mosul because we think ISIL leaders are in Mosul, and if we attack them, we will capture those leaders. It's four months, right? Go. I said, why are they saying this? These leaders -- I mean, look, let's face it, they're pretty smart people, right? So I said, why are they saying this? Whatever happened to the element of surprise? Why are they saying this? And then three months go, and then two months -- and then I hear, in two months, now it's one month. And finally about a week, two weeks ago, I heard next week at about 3:15 we're going to start the attack.These people are stupid, they're stupid people.And it's turning out to be tough -- it's turning out to be tough because they're tough as hell, and they're prepared. They're using human shields, can you imagine this? This is like not since medieval times. Chopping off heads, drowning people in steel cages. We have to do it. Killing Christians, if you're Christian, forget it. Killing everybody. But why aren't we fighting the right way? Why aren't we fighting to win? Why aren't we -- why aren't we doing things right?Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that we don't win. And now it's our worst nightmare. We've spent $6 trillion, we could have built our country twice -- we could have rebuilt our infrastructure, our country, twice. And forget about the $6 trillion, the lives that have been lost. The tremendous number of lives.Is there a doctor in the house, please? A doctor? OK. Yes, take your time, please. Thank you, thank you.These are great people. Some of these people have been here for seven hours. OK, keep that fan going. That's good. That's good, darling. You just take -- take it easy, take it easy. She looks great. She's going to be good. Do we have a doctor, please? Come on, let's go. Come on, fellas, let's go. Get a doctor. OK? There we go, there we go.She's our greatest.Been here for seven hours that girl.You take it easy, honey. Just take it easy and come back as soon as you feel good. OK? We're saving your place, and if they don't let you in, I'll get down there myself.OK.OK? Thank you very much, fellas. Thank you, doctor.They've dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe. They've left our borders wide open, isn't it amazing? We fight for their borders. We want borders, we fight for their borders, but our borders we leave open. Explain it. And they've shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries, our politicians. To all Americans I say it is time immediately for new leadership.So, in concluding, just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.We're going to eliminate every single -- every unnecessary job- killing regulation. The businesses, you're -- they're putting them out of business. And Hillary's going for big, big tax increases, folks. Enjoy them. We're going to cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We're going to rebuild our very depleted military with the greatest people on Earth working in our military.And speaking of great people, we are going to finally take proper care of our veterans, OK?We're going to have school choice, and we're going to put an end to Common Core once and for all. We're bringing our education...We will support the men and women of law enforcement -- these are great people...... save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.... and appoint justices of the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.It's time to cut our ties with the failed and bitter politics of the past. Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday. Hey, can we take another four years of Obama?I don't think so -- I don't think so. Remember three weeks ago? They had 800 people that they were going to deport. Rough ones -- these were rough ones, these were rough ones. They were all set, and somebody made a mistake. Congratulations, they became citizens of the United States of America.But that wasn't the only mistake. Because of 800, it became 1,800 people. And I said that, he said, send them back. I said, OK, reverse your error, they say, we can't do that, it's against the Constitution. I said, really? These people -- these people. We are the movement of the future. We're asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents, and first-time voters, and they're all over the place. You see that on the line.November 8th, you gotta get and vote. November 8th, November 8th. You can send in some of those little things, but November 8th you got to be there. Who's going to be there on November 8th?Who's already voted in some form?We're going to be around -- we're all going to be around a long time, right? We're fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors, and not the special interests.We're fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a much better future for their children, for their family. With your vote, we are just -- this is so hard to believe -- five days away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life.You're going to remember this vote on November, right? You're going to remember this vote -- thank you.AUDIENCE; Trump! Trump! Trump!Thank you. You're going to remember this vote because November 8th we're going to start when -- even the psychology's going to change, even though we're not going to be there until January -- middle of January -- the whole psychology is going to change. Our country is going to start winning again. And we're going to start winning again.It's going to be the most important vote, and you're going to be proud of your country again. And hopefully you're going to be proud of your president. And remember this...... this is a great moment, and I'm the messenger, I'm a messenger. It's a movement for all of us. I'm a messenger, and it's a message of common sense, and it's a message of so many different things. But it's going to be unbelievable. It's going to be unbelievable.We're going to make America wealthy again.We're going to make America strong again.And, of course, we are going to make America great again.Thank you, everybody. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. Thank you.Some brave people back there, very brave people. Look at that crowd, 15,000, more than 15,000. Thank you very much. This is a great honor. I have so many incredible friends here tonight.Thank you.We're going to have some big, big, beautiful weeks ahead of us I think, and more importantly some very, very great years for our country.I want to begin by thanking General Kellogg, amazing man, amazing friend. General Flynn, same thing these are unbelievable people; Congressman Mark Meadows we have a few great congressmen here, people that have been loyal right from the beginning. I appreciate it very much.Who knew this is where we were going to be, right? This is where we want to be.In five days we're going to win the great state of North Carolina...... and we are going to win back the White House, believe me.But you have to get out there and you have to vote, you have to vote. Who is going to be voting -- who is going to be voting on Tuesday?OK. But who has already voted?That's what I thought. All right you get out there and vote because that's the whole thing. We have a movement that this country has never seen. They're writing about it; they're talking about it all over the world and we want to make sure it happens. Otherwise, to me, not quite the same, right? Not quite the same. We want to get finished off, so get out there before Tuesday or on Tuesday and let's finish it off.It's an honor to be here in North Carolina, a place I love. You know I have right next to Charlotte a very, very successful job. I employ a lot of people. I pay a lot of salaries and that's good, they're great people. It's a state that's produced many of the finest and bravest soldiers, airmen, sailors, Marines ever to wear the uniform, known for it.I stand here tonight among true heroes -- true heroes.I'm also honored to be among so many military families, wives, husbands, parents and children who shoulder the burdens of war, brave people. Let me begin by making you this very solemn promise, I will never, ever let you down, I will tell you that.And you've been let down. You've been let down plenty over the years, believe me. I'm very proud to have the support of so many military and law enforcement groups all across this great nation. We have such incredible support. They're going out; they're voting, they've already voted. But we have unbelievable relationships with law enforcement and with the military and with our vets which is the military, believe me. The military plus two, our great vets.Including the support of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. We have many of them here with us tonight.Good, raise your hand pop. They're so much more brave than me. I wouldn't have done what they did. I'm brave in other ways, I'm brave -- I'm financially brave, big deal, right? He's a real brave.Command Sergeant Major Bob Patterson.Thanks, Bob.We travel together.Navy SEAL Mike Thornton.We travel together. Tough cookie.Sergeant Major Benny Adkins.... and Master Sergeant Leroy Petrie. Thank you. Amazing people. These are amazing people.There are a lot of amazing people right out here too, a lot of our friends. Tough cookies, I'm not going to be playing with them, I'm telling you, I'm not going to do that. I saw somebody back stage big, strong, powerful. I said to the guys, you think I could take this guy in a fight; you think I could take him? They all said no, I said, I agree. OK.These men displayed to the whole world the unyielding strength, courage and grit of the United States of America. They went above and beyond the call of duty, thought nothing of their own safety, you understand that, in order to protect their fellow man and acted with a bravery that will etch their legacy into the history of their nation and this nation.It is their nation, it's our nation, we're going to bring back our nation. We're going to bring it back to greatness like it hasn't seen.Not far from here is Fort Bragg, the second largest military base in the world.It's the home of the 82nd Airborne Division, the most decorated unit in the U.S. Military and the Army Special Forces, great people. I know many, many of them great, great people, who even today are serving in harm's way overseas.Just in the last 24 hours this country lost two soldiers in combat in Afghanistan, and it's a reminder of what our war is and the families like those at Fort Bragg and all of North Carolina's sacrifice for our country. We have a great country and we have great, great people in this country and I've seen that over the last year- and-a-half traveling all over. I've gotten to see so many, so many unbelievable people.We owe them a debt we can never really repay.Our special forces here at Fort Bragg have been the tip of the spear in fighting terrorism, believe me, we're going to fight terrorism. We're going to get rid of ISIS, we're going to get rid of them fast. All we need is leadership at the top level -- you understand what I mean, right? Does everybody understand? Believe me.The war we never win. The motto of our Army Special Forces is, "To free the oppressed " and that is exactly what they have been doing and what we will do. The military families of North Carolina have shed their blood and poured out their hearts for our country. If given the honor of serving as your president, it will be solemn duty to ensure the following: all men and women in uniform will have the supplies, the support, the equipment, the medical care and the resources they need to get the job properly done.Full and proper funding for all branches of the American Armed Services and that's -- you'll have that from me, folks. It's not about the sequester -- the sequester to take away from our military and, you know what I mean. A commitment from our allies to pay their fair share of our military burden.You know I brought that up -- nobody has ever brought that up, right? But we're protecting people all over the world and they're not treating us properly, and they will -- they will, our allies will, but somebody has to ask them. I'll ask them.They will. We'll have better relationships than we have right now, far better, and you all understand what I mean.Support for military families including jobs, education and housing the best care in the world for our unbelievable, great veterans. And the veterans have supported me as much as anybody else and they know what I'm talking about. They have not been treated fairly or properly, both at the public V.A. facilities, as well as the right to see private doctors of their choice if they're not getting the service they need.And you know they're not getting that service. People are waiting in line; veterans are waiting in line for seven days, eight days, 12 days. And I won't mention numbers but you know what's going on with certain rates of suicide and things -- you don't even like talking about -- hard to believe when you hear the numbers, 22 a day, hard to believe, inconceivable. And often times they're waiting for a simple procedure or simple prescription and that stuff is not going to happen anymore folks. You are our great people -- you are our great people -- you are our great people it's not going to happen.And finally, a commitment to only engage the use of military forces when it's vital for national security interests of the United States.We will stop trying to build foreign democracies, topple regimes and race recklessly to intervene in situations that we have no right to be there, folks. We want strength in this country. We want to protect our country.Instead, our focus must be on keeping America safe and on destroying ISIS -- we have no choice on that -- and defeating radical Islamic terrorism. We will defeat it and we will defeat it quickly.Any nation that shares our goal of destroying ISIS and defeating terrorist will be our partner in this mission. Under the failed leadership -- we will build a wall, don't worry about it.It will be a great wall. It will be a real wall, folks. It will be a real wall.Under the failed leadership of Hillary -- look, leadership, what leadership? I don't want to use the word in the same sentence of Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama. ISIS has become a clear and present danger to Europe and the United States. After all of the sacrifice our soldiers have made, Clinton and Obama pulled out the troops on a public timetable giving rise to ISIS. They call it the big vacuum that was created and handing Iraq over to the ISIS killers and thugs. Now ISIS is on a campaign of genocide in the Middle East torturing, drowning, burning people alive, chopping off their heads. Not since medieval time have we seen something like this folks.And I want to rebuild our country. I want to rebuild our infrastructure, but there are some things that have to be done first, believe me. ISIS has slaughtered men and women and children in France, Germany, Belgium and they're now 1,000 -- never before so many -- ISIS investigations going on in the United States. We've seen the bloodshed in the attacks, in Orlando, San Bernardino and the recent bomb blood in New York and New Jersey.Yet as we send brave men and women overseas to fight terrorists in the Middle East, Hillary Clinton wants to fling our borders wide open allowing those same terrorists to infiltrate our country by the thousands.Obama and Clinton are allowing thousands and thousands to come into our country. Hillary wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees and virtually unlimited immigration from most of the extreme and dangerous places in the world to pour into our country, unthinkable.A Trump Administration will suspend the Syrian refugee program and keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.And we all have heart and we don't want to see people hurt.Folks, we all have big hearts and we want to see people live and be taken care of. We can't -- we have so many problems we can't allow this to happen, but we will build safe zones in Syria, we will get the Gulf States -- they have nothing but money -- we owe $20 trillion if you don't mind, right? Boy this is a big crowd, man. Look where that goes to.General Flynn is even impressed -- he's never impressed, but he's impressed. But this is a big crowd. And by the way, I wish those cameras, world's most dishonest people, the media, I wish these people -- I wish these people would take a look at this crowd because that's what we have, but they never want to do that. It's always right on my face. I go home, I say to my wife, did they show the crowd? No they just showed your face, I don't want that.There is a big lot of people, over 15,000 people in this field.So we want to build safe zones, we'll do it in Syria. We'll get the Gulf States to put up the money, they'll do it. And, you know, we'll take care of people but we cannot let what's happening in Germany and Sweden and lots of other places, look at France -- look at Paris. I have friends that used to go to Paris. They don't go anymore, they say, no Paris isn't Paris. We can't allow to happen San Bernardino, so many other places, Orlando, recently, more recently.We know Hillary can't be trusted, we've learned that, with America's security. You take a look at her email situation, can we trust her with our security?She is disqualified for running for president of the United States, she's disqualified. The most dishonest person ever to run for office.You know when I look at these great admirals, and these great generals, and these great Medal of Honor recipients behind me, to think of her being their boss? I don't think so.And you know, they're incredible patriots, they would never say a thing but I know what they're thinking. It's not for them, believe me. She's under multiple criminal investigations at this very moment for criminal conduct that put the safety of our nation at risk. Just a few minutes ago CBS News just announced and confirmed that the 650,000 -- and you wonder why things don't get done -- 650,000 emails discovered by the FBI include brand new emails not previously seen.Remember when they said they were all duplicates, they're duplicates. Well, how can there by duplicates when 650,000 is even more than all of them that are missing, right? How can there be duplicates? Hillary therefore committed perjury absolutely because of her statements in addition to all of her other crimes. Probably also in that batch are classified at the highest level, that would now have been hacked by foreign countries, because you saw today where they said, yes, she was hacked.This is a person that's running for president? Service members here in North Carolina have risked their lives to acquire classified intelligence to protect our country. Hillary thought nothing of putting classified information on her illegal server which our enemies now have hacked.And as you know, as you know, Four Star General Cartwright, two weeks ago, James Cartwright, somebody respected by a lot of these people, by all of them that I spoke to, can tell you, General Kellogg, General Flynn, great respect for them -- for him. He was in such -- he could go to jail now for five years for doing something that's a tiny fraction of what she did. She is protected by the Department of Justice. And what's going on in our country, this has never happened -- ever happened before.The FBI is in there, they're doing their job and they're not allowed to be doing their job. What's going on is a disgrace. We know now with almost 100 percent confidence that at least five foreign intelligence agencies breached the Clinton server. Then she tried to destroy the evidence by deleting the emails after -- not before, that was bad -- after receiving a United States congressional subpoena. So she gets the subpoena from Congress and she said, this isn't good delete -- delete the emails.Hillary created the server to shield her criminal activity and her corrupt pay-for-play schemes, where she sold her office as secretary of State to the donors and special interests and the FBI has it all -- they have it all. They're not allowed to do anything with it because her protector is the Department of Justice.We'll have to change the name of the Department of Justice. In other words, she was more interested in keeping her emails a secret than in keeping our classified intelligence a secret. She was more interested in protecting herself than in protecting the people of the United States.Ending this criminal government corruption is one of the most important reasons you have to go out on November 8th and vote if you haven't already done it. We also know Hillary can't be trusted with our security because of her disastrous record on foreign policy. No secretary of State in history has failed in more places in more ways than Hillary Clinton, like Benghazi. In 2009, pre-Hillary, Libya was stable, Syria was under control, Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence and ISIS wasn't even on the map. We didn't know what ISIS was, they didn't exist.Fast forward to today. Libya is in ruins. Syria is in the middle of a catastrophic civil war. Iraq is in total chaos and ISIS is spreading across the region into Europe, into America. They've launched a campaign of genocide against Christians all over the world, they're in 32 countries. Yet after all of this, Hillary Clinton can't even say the words radical Islamic terror, can't say the words, she won't say the words and our president won't say the words. And unless you're going to know what the words are, unless you're going to admit what the problem is, you're never going to solve the problem. She won't say the words, he won't say the words.He'll tell you for a half an hour why he won't say the words. At the end of the half hour, people look and say what's going on. Anyone who cannot name the enemy cannot lead the country.Another reason we know Hillary can't be trusted with our security is as that gentleman right there who's been shouting out all night, Benghazi. Let me make this very clear, a Trump Administration will honor that sacred pledge to leave no man or woman behind.On top of everything else, we have the disaster -- we have the disaster of the humiliation in Iran. Our sailors were forced to their knees, because they were a little off course. Remember that? The humiliation of the 10 sailors? They feel ruined and permanently humiliated. They humiliated our country after we signed a deal that was one of the dumbest deals I've ever seen in my life. It's going to be a path to nuclear weapons within 10 years -- they'll be much quicker than that. We gave them -- remember -- we gave them all of that money. We gave them $1.7 billion in cash, they thought it was $400 million.Do you know what $1.7 billion in cash is? That's like -- we could get the general -- we get the generals, the admirals, the Medal of Honor winners -- get them off the stage because we wouldn't have enough to room to put them. That cash would fill up that stage and more. We gave them cash, it was a ransom, we said it wasn't a ransom, another lie. Just like he lied about, remember, Obamacare. You can keep your doctor, keep you plan, he lied.Well, he lied about this and now Iran is demanding billions more in new ransom payments, because they've got some other people -- they want billions more. So we made a horrible deal -- this is what happens when you make bad deals -- they become emboldened because they think you're stupid people. They're circling their ships with their little boats, and who knows what they're saying. I think I know what they're saying without even asking. They're going next to our planes with their fighter jets. They became emboldened.With all of the money, all of the humiliation, we gave them $150 billion back and they've become nastier. And they were in trouble when Obama started -- when Hillary started that deal, she started it by the way. They were in deep trouble, we could've made a great deal. Sometimes you have to walk and walk and walk. But we made one of the dumbest I've ever seen. Hillary put them on a path to regional dominance and nuclear weapons. Because of our failed leaders including from the campaigner in chief, Obama.This guy does nothing but campaign. You know, I said the other day, I said, let him work on bringing our jobs back from Mexico who stole our jobs. Let him work on building up our very depleted -- you know it better than anybody -- our depleted military, the greatest people in the world. We have a depleted -- we have fighter jets that are so old they don't make parts for them anymore -- you people know this better than me. We have to airplane graveyards and museums to get parts for our fighter jets that we're currently using. He ought to be doing that, he ought to be working on our borders, he ought to be working on crime. Instead he's campaigning with somebody that's under FBI investigation.America is not respected, sadly, around the world because of our leadership. And at home, our cities have seen an alarming rise in violence, communities are trapped in poverty, and 400,000 -- think of it, we have so many people that are living badly, so many people. We have over 40,000 homeless veterans, even as we spend trillions of dollars to support illegal immigration.We have illegal immigrants that are treated far better than our great veterans. That's not going to happen anymore folks.Hillary Clinton wants to send American troops to defend our borders, and the borders of foreign countries, but refused to protect the borders of our own country. And without borders we don't have a country. Isn't it amazing? We'll spend billions of dollars to protect borders, and to establish borders of countries, but the United States essentially doesn't have borders. America needs a turnaround and needs it now, America needs new leadership quickly. That begins with restoring respect for America and restoring respect for the American flag.I haven't liked what I've been seeing and neither have you. It also means rebuilding our depleted military. A Trump Administration will immediately reverse the Obama-Clinton Defense Sequester.The Army is the smallest it's been since before World War II, did you know that? The Navy is the smallest since World War I. The admirals back there know it, they're not happy.You're not happy Admirals, are you?They're not happy. The Air Force is the smallest and oldest it's ever been just about since inception.My plan will grow the Army to 540,000 -- that's the number they want, that's the number they feel comfortable with, the great generals. Five hundred and forty thousand active troops which the Army chief of staff has really reported on very strongly that's what they need. That means more brigade combat teams at Fort Bragg.Fort Bragg -- by the way the reputation of Fort Bragg, great -- the men and women of Fort Bragg, great, it's great.We will build 1,200 modern fighters our Air Force needs -- these are the jets. And that means more planes flying out of locations like Seymour Johnson Air Force Base...... and Marine Corps Air Station Cherry Point.Our Marine Corps will grow from 27 to 36 battalions.I don't know, maybe you like it the way it is? A little nice and easy -- no, you like -- you want it to grow, right?It needs to grow. And that's going to need a lot more Marines at Camp Lejeune -- and I've been to Camp Lejeune.And new military technologies will be produced at the Research Triangle right here in North Carolina.In summary, my policy can be based on three very important words, peace through strength.We need it -- we need it -- we need it. Almost as much as ever before we need strength, we need strong military. Strength also means -- yes, I agree. Strength also means we need to save America's economy. That begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.It's a disaster -- it's a disaster. It's just been announced that the residents of North Carolina are going to experience a massive, massive double digit premium hike. Ninety-five of 100 North Carolina counties will have only one insurer in the Obamacare exchange next year. Lots of luck negotiating that one folks -- that's not going to be easy. But it doesn't matter because if I win we're terminating it and we're going to have great insurance so it doesn't matter, not going to matter.Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare making it much more expensive than it already is, which is ridiculous and its horrible health care and it's very -- you don't even get to use it. I'm asking for your vote so we can repeal Obamacare and save health care for every family in North Carolina and this country.At the core of my contract with the American voter is my plan to bring back our jobs.North Carolina is a very vivid example, lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA -- a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.America has lost -- tell this in front of all of these brave, incredible people behind me -- 70,000 factories -- think of it, 70,000. I thought it was a typo when I first read it two weeks ago. Seventy thousand factories since China entered the World Trade Organization -- another Bill Clinton disaster backed very strongly by Hillary.We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world -- the history of the world. There's never been anything like this. We have like major highways, it's a one-way street into Mexico and other countries. We lose our jobs, we lose our factories, we lose our plants, we lose our wealth, we end up with drugs and unemployment and crime.A Trump Administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, and we will stop the jobs from leaving North Carolina -- we will stop it -- consequences.The theft of American prosperity will finally end. They have taken away our prosperity, believe me. We're in a bubble, they have taken away our prosperity. If a company wants to fire their workers, move to another country and then try to ship their products back into the United States -- where we will now have a very, very strong border -- we will apply a 35 percent tax on all of good.And you know what's going to happen? Those companies will never leave, it's very simple -- it's very simple, they'll never leave because the model no longer works.A Trump Administration will renegotiate -- totally -- NAFTA, this disaster called NAFTA. And if we don't' get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers.We will also stop -- and I mean immediately -- the job killing Transpacific Partnership that's being talked about right now. That will be another NAFTA -- although nothing is as bad as NAFTA -- but we will stop it. That will take the rest of your jobs.As part of our plan -- thank you, I love you too, tough guy over there -- the rough looking guy says he loves me, I don't know. I don't know, but I love him, I love you all, believe me.As part of our plan...Thank you.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent. We will become a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation we must also be a safe nation.Hillary supports total open borders -- there goes your country -- and supports sanctuary cities like in San Francisco where Kate Steinle, the great, beautiful, wonderful person, Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant who had been deported perhaps more than five times.A Trump Administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities, very simple.We will deport all criminal aliens, stop the drugs from pouring into our communities and we will protect American workers, it's time. And that's just the beginning. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan. Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes substantially. She is going for a major tax increase, remember that. We're the highest taxed nation in the world, and she wants a tax increase, I don't think so.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job killing regulation, cancel every illegal Obama executive order...... rebuild our military and take care of our vets...... provide school choice and an end to common core -- we're bringing our education local.We are going to support the truly great men and women of law enforcement.We will save our Second Amendment which is under siege...... and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.It's time to cut our ties with the failed and bitter politics of the past -- and they are failed and they are bitter. Hillary Clinton -- if she's even allowed to run -- is the candidate of yesterday, we are the movement of the future, we -- we.I'm just the messenger folks. Thank you.Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Great people -- great, great people.Thank you very much. You're the ones, you're the ones; I'm the messenger, but I have done a good job as a messenger, you have to say, I mean we've done a good job.You know I was on the other side, you know that. I was like when you talk about insider -- who was a better insider than me? But I love this country. I saw what was happening to our country and I said, I have to do this hard work, it's hard work, but I have to do this.And we're going to make our country again, you watch, and fast.We are asking for the votes of Republicans, Democrats, Independents and first-time voters, of which there are many -- you take a look at the lines in Florida, you take a look at the lines right here, you take a look at the lines in Texas and in Georgia and all over. It is unbelievable what's going on, I'll tell you. You talk about movement, it is a real movement. We've never had anything like this in this country -- and even the pundits, even the ones that don't like me -- they say, there's never been anything like what's -- just take a look at this field.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interest.We are fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family who hope and pray and yearn for a better future. With your vote in just -- can you believe this, five days, can you believe it? It started on June 16th -- June 16th of last year and look where we are, look where we are, such progress, such unbelievable progress. We're just five days away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life. We're very happy.You will remember this night as a very important night, and you are going to remember your vote, hopefully as the greatest vote you have ever cast because our country will start winning again. We're gonna win, we're gonna win with trade.We're gonna win at the borders.You know, I tell the story of Mosul and I heard about Mosul for a long time. You know, we had Mosul, it was only the way Obama got out, that we lost it, now we're now trying to retake it with great, great people. But I said, whatever happened to the element of surprise? Because about four months ago, I heard, you know, what I'm talking about -- they know what I'm talking about better than anybody. I said, whatever happened to the element of surprise? So four months ago I hear, we are going to go in and take Mosul. I said, I don't want to hear it, just do it, do it quietly, don't talk about it.And one of the reasons we're going to take it is we are going to get the leaders of ISIS who are in Mosul. I said, wait a minute, these are smart people. If they think you're going in, they're going to leave. And they're going to build up and leave lots of people behind. And you see what they're doing, right? It's much tougher than they thought. Then I heard three months ago again, we're going into Mosul, we're going to get the leaders, then two months ago, then one month ago.I keep saying why are they doing this. What's wrong with talking about it not at all? Let's have a news conference in a week after it's done OK?So as you know they have a very tough fight going on now, and the leaders have all left -- I could've told you that. They left -- you know when they left? About two minutes after hearing the first one, right? And they're someplace else right now.We are led by stupid people, OK?We are led by stupid people, and one of them is campaigning just too much. So we have a great country.Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.God bless you, everybody.Special people -- you are special people.God bless you. Get out and vote.Thank you very much. Thank you, folks.You know, this is where it all began, New Hampshire. This is where it all began.First victory. This was our first victory and I've never forgotten it. And I made a promise to you. We're going to keep the poison out. You know what that is, the drugs. We're gonna stop those drugs.Right -- right here is where I learned more about it than in any place else and we are gonna stop the poison from coming into this country.You watch. You watch.In four days, we are going to win the great state of New Hampshire...... and we are going to win back the White House.And we've had incredible polls. You've probably seen the new Rasmussen poll just came out, we're three points up nationwide and going like a rocket.Many, many polls. I won't even go over all the polls, but we're leading in Ohio, and Iowa, all over the place.I think we're doing great in North Carolina. I think we're doing great in Pennsylvania too, by the way. And Florida looks beautiful. Florida looks beautiful. We have so many great polls.But you have to get out and vote on November 8th. You have to do that. We're on the cusp of historic change that transfers power from a failed political establishment and returns that power to you, the American people. That's what's gonna happen.That's what's gonna happen.There's more breaking news, as you probably heard, that I'd like to share with you right now. Is that OK?As you know, the FBI now has multiple open criminal investigations into Hillary Clinton.This includes the discovery of another 650,000 emails and also a far-reaching criminal investigation into her pay for play scheme at the State Department. Last night, CBS News just confirmed that the 650,000 emails include brand new emails not previously seen by authorities.She said she gave them all in, right? She said, gave them all in. Well, when we saw 650,000, we figured, I guess there has to become surprises. Wait till you see what they find in those 650 too, it won't be pretty.Hillary Clinton lied to Congress under oath when she said she turned over all her work-related emails, and that she didn't send classified information on her illegal server. Meaning, she may now face major problems for perjury.How can Hillary manage this country, when she can't even manage her emails? Did you ever see -- hey, folks, let's forget all of the stuff -- what a mess -- what a mess. All she had to do was follow the rules and assume people are watching or listening, who cares right? What a mess, and for what? Now we're going to have her running the country for four years?What a -- honestly, what a terrible, terrible mess. Over -- over what? Over nothing, over what should have been nothing. All she had to do was follow the rules, unbelievable. And now she is going to run the country. She will be under investigation for years, she will be with trials. Our country, we have to get back to work, right?Well, one of her top people, I guess her top person said -- WikiLeaks, said she has bad instincts, what a bad thing, bad instincts. She should fire him, honestly. That would be good instincts, but she should fire him. John Podesta, in an email said, Hillary has bad instincts. Do you want that for your president? Then Bernie Sanders said -- Bernie Sanders said bad judgment, but in all fairness he was running against her. So he said bad judgment. But the guy that's running her campaign says Hillary really has bad instincts. Then we're going to say, let's make her president.The FBI agents say their investigation is likely to yield an indictment, however the report also shows that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying as hard as it can to protect their angel, Hillary Clinton. Why didn't they protect General Cartwright, and why didn't they protect General Petraeus? Why didn't they protect a kid who's taking a couple pictures of a submarine -- that's an old submarine? And they put him in jail -- they put him in jail -- lovely family, lovely mother, they put him in jail because he wanted to have some remembrance of where he worked. It's an old submarine, believe me, they have pictures of that submarine that nobody knows about, probably, right? They put him in jail.And you see what she does and she's allowed to run for president. Folks do you know what it tells you? The system is rigged, and I've been saying that for a long time.The system is rigged, she shouldn't be allowed to run. Hillary is engaged in massive criminal enterprise and cover-up. She created an illegal email server to shield her criminal activity and corrupt pay for play. She illegally transmitted confidential information -- you're just not allowed to do that. Forget about the second go round, what she's in now. The first go around, you're not allowed to do it, you're not allowed to delete after you get subpoena.She illegally destroyed federal records, including 33,000 email s, which she deleted after getting that subpoena from Congress. If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis, what a mess. I mean, we went through it with him, with the impeachment and the lies, aren't we tired of this stuff?She is likely to be under investigation for a long time, concluding in a criminal trial, our president. America deserves a government that can go to work on day one and get it done.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing the disaster known as Obamacare.And Obama, you know, he is campaigning all over the place. I left Miami yesterday, there was the plane. He is campaigning -- he ought to be in the White House working and getting our jobs back, and building up our military, and creating some semblance of a border -- which we don't have now.It's just been announced that Americans nationwide are going to experience a massive, double digit premium hike in Obamacare. In the great state of Arizona -- where I just left, and I'll be back -- premiums are going up more than 116 percent, Arizona, 116 percent. Over 90 percent of the counties in New Hampshire are losing Obamacare, they're losing the insurers, and that's going to be next year. So lot's of luck negotiating, folks, 90 percent. Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting and deductibles are going through the roof. Other than that, it's a fantastic health care, fantastic.It's really fabulous, isn't it? It was bad before they even did it. You have to say, I'm pretty consistent -- I called a lot of things over the years, right? But I said Obamacare's not going to work before it was even approved and he got it approved -- he got it approved by lies because he said you keep your doctor, you keep your plan and even Democrats that didn't want it, they said all right, well then. And he got people -- they wish they didn't approve it now, believe me. It is a catastrophe.Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive than it already is and it doesn't work. I'm asking for your vote so we can replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in New Hampshire and every family in this country.Real change also means restoring honesty to government. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption, which there's plenty.First thing we have to do is keep Hillary Clinton out of office.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs, about time. The terrible jobs report that just came out shows the number of people not in the workforce increased by another 425,000 people last month. That's why you see these phony numbers about five percent unemployed. People are stopping, they're not looking for work anymore because they can't get a job, then they take them off the rolls.These numbers are an absolute disaster. Labor force participation has fallen to its lowest level in nearly 40 years, that's what's happening. Nearly one in four people in their prime working years are not working. They want to work, they're not working. After eight years, Obama is the first president in modern history not to have a single year of three percent growth. We're growing at any average of probably one to two percent, nobody even knows and nobody believes the numbers anyway. The numbers they put out are phony as far as I'm concerned.For millions of Americans, it's an economic nightmare. New Hampshire has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.This is the one that's hardest to believe of all. America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization. You people know -- New England, boy do you know it. Another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world, and that's what it is when you think. We have a one way highway right into Mexico and these other places. They take our jobs and they take our money, they take out cash. You know what we get out of it? Drugs and unemployment. It's going to end, don't worry about it, folks. Don't even think about it. It's going to end.Don't forget -- and I have to say this, because I tell this story all over the place. I learn so much in New Hampshire because I see this place, it's so beautiful. To me, it's one of the most beautiful places on Earth. You -- nice, beautiful winding roads -- even the roads, everything's so -- the trees and the little lakes and streams. And I sat down because I have so many friends up here, because I worked hard during those primaries. Remember, I was supposed to lose the primary. I won in a landslide, right?Remember they had the story the day before. It looks like Trump could lose New Hampshire. And the numbers came out, it was a land slide. But what I learned is -- because it was so -- it was sort of shocking because I considered -- you know, I love this kind of look. And I consider with the trees and the whole thing -- so beautiful. And I sat down with groups of people. You know, it wasn't always big rallies because I'd sit down with people.Say, "What's the problem?" Every single group said heroin. I said, "heroin?" Because it didn't make sense to me. You know, you look at the streams and the lakes and the trees and then they say heroin and it was shocking. That's why I've never forgotten it. I never forgot those meetings in every single group.And then I met with your police. You have the great -- you have such great law enforcement up here. But they said the same thing.And so much of their crime is caused by drugs. They come from the southern border largely. And I said to you -- I said to you and you remember this, if I make it, we are going to stop that problem and then we're gonna work on all of the people who are so seriously addicted. And there are things happening -- you know, there are things happening with medicines that the federal FDA is not even releasing. They're not even releasing. There are things that come out that potentially could really help.But we're gonna work on the people that have become so seriously addicted because it's tremendous. It's not only our youth. You know, I say poisoning our youth, but it's a lot of other people. But I learned that from New Hampshire. Then I go to other states and they say very similar things. But honestly never as much fervor as drugs in New Hampshire, and it just really had a great impact.I said to you I'm gonna solve the problem if I get there. And boy, are we are getting close. Now we're getting close, right?True. We're gonna solve it. When you see the rusted out factories and empty buildings, just remember this. Hillary Clinton's policies and others like her, her friends, did this to us, all of us. Just look at the devastation. Rockwell laid-off 169 people in Manchester and moved their jobs to Mexico. Fisher -- and these are recent. Fisher Scientific laid-off 213 people in Hudson and moved their jobs to Mexico. The woman -- I just overheard her say, "I didn't know that." Right? Now you know. Now you know. She was a little louder than she thought. That's OK.She didn't know. Now she knows. Car Component Technologies laid-off 559 workers in Bedford and moved their jobs to Canada and to Mexico. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, believe me, and we will stop the jobs from leaving New Hampshire.The theft of American prosperity will end. They have taken away our prosperity. From now on, it's going to be America First.And let me just tell you a little -- right now, they move, they build, they have lots of fun and they just send it right through a very weak border. First of all, they're gonna have to send through a very strong border, but that's OK. But they're gonna have a 35 percent tax.Here's what's going to happen: they're not gonna move because it doesn't work anymore. They're not gonna move. They're gonna stay in this country. They're gonna stay in New Hampshire. They're gonna stay in this country. It's so simple. But the politicians will never approve that because the special interests and their donors want them to be able to go and -- you know, it's good for them, but it's not good for us.A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers. We have to have jobs...You know, I -- I said before, it's a one -- it's a one-lane highway. We have to have a lane coming in our direction too, folks. We have nothing. We get nothing.We will also immediately stop the job-killing Transpacific Partnership. That's gonna be the next disaster.That's another beauty. That'll take the jobs you have left.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent and we'll keep our business.We're right now the highest taxed nation in the world. And remember, Hillary wants to raise taxes, big league. We will massive cut taxes for the middle class. She wants to raise them big league. Doesn't even make sense. We will also -- that's right; $1.3 billion -- $1.6 billion.That's right. He read the -- he read her page. And if she says that, it's going higher. You know that. $1.3 trillion. Can you -- it's inconceivable. We're the highest taxed nation in the world. Remember that.We will also cancel -- we're gonna save ourselves altogether, OK?He says, "Save us." We're gonna all save ourselves.This is a movement -- I'll tell you, this is a movement like has never been before. And you know, I'd say it all the time. And they don't even question it because the dishonest media, among the world's most dishonest people.They don't even question. And now, we're gonna -- we're gonna -- we're gonna be so strong again and so smart again. We're gonna be -- you don't have to worry about saving. It's gonna be well beyond saving, OK?We will also cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations, money that we don't even know what they do with it.We don't even know what they do with it. And use that money to support America's environmental infrastructure. For instance, up here. What we want. We want crystal clear, clean water. Right? Everybody. We want beautiful -- right? We want beautiful air to breath. We want safety. Other than that, that's all we want.The rest we want are companies to go out and compete with oil. They can't compete because of all of these restrictions. But we want clear water, clean air, and we want safety. That's to me, what I like. And that's to me -- and I've won many environmental awards by the way. I'm -- I've actually been called an environmentalist, if you can believe that.That includes protecting the great bay and the white mountains of New Hampshire. We're gonna protect them -- they'll be protected. They'll be better protected than they are right now with a lot less intrusive nonsense.Our plan will end excessive federal regulations that are harming fisherman on the sea coast, you know all about that. They're making it impossible. They're making it for the miners, for the fishermen. They're making it impossible for the steel workers with all the dumping of steel all over the place. We will become a rich nation again -- a truly rich nation. Some people think that doesn't sound nice -- it's not politically correct. We have to.But to be a rich nation, we much also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees flowing into our country.That's over and above the thousands and thousands being let in right now by Obama. Her plan would mean generations of terrorism, extremism, and radicalism spreading into your schools and throughout your communities. When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country. Sorry.Had no choice, we have no choice. And we all have a heart and will build safe zones in Syria, we'll help them. We all have a heart. But we see what's happening to Germany and to France and to all of these -- it's a disaster. It's a disaster. Look at Nice this summer. Look at what's going on in Paris and all of these -- all of these different places.We're gonna work, but we're -- you know, we owe $20 trillion. We're not gonna spend the money. I'll get the Gulf states to put up the money. They have tremendous money. They need us, they have to step up to the plate. They need us, we'll get them to put up the money, we'll lead the effort, and we'll build safe zones all over Syria. And we'll take care of it.We'll get other people to pay. We'll get other people to pay.Who said that? Who?That statement could only be made in New Hampshire, I have to tell you. You people, if the press hears that statement, you'll be in trouble. But somehow I think he'll be able to handle it.A Trump administration will also secure, defend the borders of the United States.And yes, we will build a great wall.We received the first-ever endorsement from our ICE and border patrol officers. We will work with them -- these are great people but the way, would've been a lot easier if they didn't -- look, if Hillary got in, all they'd have to do is stand there and let people walk right in front of them.These are great people. They know what is happening to our country. They see what's happening to our country. We will work with them to stop the drugs from pouring into New Hampshire and throughout the country and poisoning our youth. The immigration officers warned in a letter that Hillary's plan is the most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history, and that will lead to the loss of thousands and thousands of lives, it's a quote from them.As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allows many, many people -- she allowed so many people, the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free, because their home countries -- very intelligently -- wouldn't take them back. We get these people that weren't supposed to be here, that are violent criminals, drug dealers, gang members, heads of gangs. We put them in a plane, we send them back, their countries say, we don't want them. We don't want them. We're not taking them. They'd call the secretary of State -- or her, or her people -- they won't take them back. That's OK, bring them back, let them out, and then they kill people. OK or they do other things that are very bad.Ever, never, never happen. They don't respect us, these other countries don't have respect. Hillary supports totally open borders, there goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco, where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant, deported at least five times. A Trump administration will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.We will end illegal immigration, stop the drugs from pouring into our country, deport all criminal aliens and save so many American lives.We will also reap -- and it's just safe -- it's just -- doesn't that make sense?We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester. And rebuild our badly depleted military.Greatest people on Earth -- the greatest people. Our Navy is the smallest it's been. Listen to this, how sad, and then you see China in the South China Sea, building their fortresses and taking our money. They take our money and they build their fortresses, we'll have a great relationship, I have a great relationship with China, I've made a lot of money dealing with China, China's terrific.Look, dealing with China is great, but I'm -- and I'm not angry China for doing this stuff. I'm angry at our people for allowing it to happen. Our Navy is the smallest it has been since World War I, you believe that? We will build the 350 ship Navy that our country needs, and really is requesting, which means lots more work for the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.Right? Great shipyard, not too busy, but it's a great shipyard. We'll make it busy. And you know, things like that -- number one, we're building our defense, it also puts our great people to work, right? It's great. We'll also expand the center of excellence at Portsmouth to recruit a large number of skilled craftsmen like pipefitters and welders that we need to expand our fleet. I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. I was with them last night.Near Fort Bragg -- we were right near Fort Bragg last night. We had some amazing people, we had over 20,000 people. It was the most unbelievable evening and we had tremendous numbers of admirals and generals and we had a lot of Medal of Honor winners, amazing, it was an amazing evening. Our new foreign policy will put America First. You haven't heard that for a long time. Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya, she empowered Iran and, she unleashed ISIS.Now she wants to start a shooting war in Syria in conflict -- and this in conflict with a nuclear-armed Russia that could seriously lead to World War III. I think she's an unstable person to start off with, I really do.I think she's unstable.She and Obama created it through the vacuum. Hillary...Wars that never end, wars that we never win. And now it's in worse shape than it's ever been before and we have to rebuild our country, folks. We could have rebuilt our country twice and the Middle East now is far worse than it was when we started this whole mess. They've dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe and they've left our borders wide open at home. Isn't it interesting how we fight for other people's borders, lose our lives -- the lives, the money -- most important are the lives, the great lives. We lose lives, the money, and yet we want to have open borders, right? Explain that. We fight for borders for other countries -- half the people never heard of these other countries. They want borders and then we leave our borders open. And they've shipped our jobs and they've shipped our wealth to other countries. To all Americans, I say it is time for new leadership.We need change. We need change. The last thing we need is four more years of Obama with ISIS...That's really nice.I think we're going to have a great, great day on Tuesday in New Hampshire.You know, one of the big commentators, political commentators -- I thought I'd tell you, it's only good for your ego -- but just said whoever wins New Hampshire is going to win.It's interesting, right? She said, "You'll win by five." Only five? I want more than five. Let's win.Justin concluded. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan and maybe beyond. And Hillary wants to raise your taxes. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation, killing businesses. We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We are going to protect religious liberty.Rebuild our military and take care of our great, great vets. We're going to take care of our vets.And I mean really take care of them, not like all the lip service they've had for 25 years. Our vets -- by the way folks, are treated so poorly, the stories are horrible. Stories -- great -- that's great.Hold that up with pride. We love you, man, we love you. That is beautiful. Thank you.We're going to take care of our vets. We're going to provide school choice and put an end to common core.We're going to have education local. We will support the great men and women of law enforcement.Something which you folks like a lot, we will save -- we will save our very much under siege Second Amendment.And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court, who will -- right? Who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.It's time to cut our ties with the failed and bitter politics of the past. Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday. We -- you -- you -- we, are the movement of the future.Common sense, intelligence. Our movement represents all Americans from all backgrounds and all walks of life. We're asking for the votes of Republicans and Democrats and Independents and first time voters -- of which there are plenty. You just have to look at the lines in Florida, North Carolina and all over the place. You look at what's happening, tremendous numbers of people that haven't voted in 20 years or first time voters. We're fighting -- like him, he just said like him -- well, thank you, man. He just said, I voted."Is that your first time? That's beautiful, thank you.Lot of people, lot of people. I mean you have people, literally -- and they show the lines in Florida and Texas. Remember they said, Texas is in play -- two weeks ago I said, really? I thought I was doing great in Texas. These people, they're horrible people.Texas -- they go, Texas is in play and then they have the lines they're a mile long. And then you have this wonderful guy, Mr. Miller -- Sid Miller, gets on one of the shows, how are you doing in Texas? He says this is a total blowout for Trump, now they're saying it's in play. So, these lines are a mile long, we never had lines like this. And people that have never voted before are coming onto the lines wearing Trump shirts and hats and buttons falling off that. These are people that never voted. These are people that didn't give a damn for politics because they never saw anybody that they liked.They love the country as much as anybody, but they never -- like you -- but they never saw anybody that they felt good about and they didn't vote. And now they go from that, they go from being a non- political person into wearing Trump shirts and buttons. It's a beautiful thing.It's a beautiful thing.But Texas is a total blowout. But you remember, right? Texas is in play. These characters. They're just bad people, the media. They are bad people. Bad people.And then one of them said this morning, "We were wrong about Texas." A total blowout. We're going to have a lot of blowouts, I think.I'll never forget it, folks. I'm telling you, four, five days ago, before the lines formed, "Texas is in play." I said man, that would be terrible. I don't wanna lose Texas. That would be terrible. Total blowout. We love the people of Texas.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.We're fighting to unlock the potential of every American community and every American family and hope and pray and yearn for a better future. I'm asking you to dream big, because with your vote, we are just -- can you believe this -- four days away. Four days away.We're four days away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life. I'm ready. I'm ready.I'm ready. He just -- a vet. He's a great veteran. He's just shouting, "Are you ready?" I'm ready. I promise.I didn't need this, folks. I -- I was -- hey look, I was on the other side. I understood the other side very well. It was very nice, very enjoyable. But I love this country and we had to do this. Believe me, we had to do this. And I'm ready.Thank you, everybody. Thank you.Thank you. I appreciate that. Thank you very much.Together, we will make America wealthy again, we will make America strong again, we will make America safe again and we will make America great again.God bless you, everybody.God bless you. Thank you very much. Thank you, New Hampshire. Get out and vote.Thank you, everybody. Wow!Thank you very much.Thank you very much everybody. This is amazing. And you know what, we have 7,000 people outside trying to get in, can you believe this?In four days we are going to win the great state of Pennsylvania...... and we are going to win back the White House. We are going to win it back. Unbelievable, look at this, maybe because I went to school in Pennsylvania, maybe that's the reason.Maybe. My kids went to school in Pennsylvania. A smart place, Pennsylvania.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.It's just been announced that the residents of Pennsylvania are going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike.No good.In the great state of Arizona, where I just left, premiums are going up more than 116 percent.All 67 counties in Pennsylvania are losing Obamacare insurers next year, lots of luck negotiating, folks, but it won't matter because it will be terminated, you won't have to bother. We'll have great health care at much less expense...... much lower price. You'll be paying a fraction of what you're paying and you're going to get really good stuff, I can tell you.Premiums are surging on Obamacare, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, and deductibles are through the roof. You have deductibles -- $13,000, $14,000, $15,000. Nobody has ever seen anything so ridiculous. And yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.And she also wants to, by the way, raise your taxes very substantially. I am asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Pennsylvania and our country.We're going to do it, folks. We're going to do it. Oh, boy, are we going to win -- we are going to win Pennsylvania big. Look at this.I hear we set a new record for this building. And by the way, I didn't have to bring JLo or Jay Z, the only way she gets anybody.I'm here all by myself. I am here all by myself.Just me, no guitar, no piano, no nothing.But you know what we do have and it's all of us, it's all the same, we all have great ideas and great vision for our country, that's what we have.So I know we have two of our great Congressman here, Tom Marino, Lou Barletta, they're here. Where are they?No, we love them. Folks, they're great.Real change also means restoring honesty to our government. As you know, the FBI -- and you know this -- has anybody heard? Has anybody heard?Just a little rumor, just a little rumor, I think a couple of you have heard. As you know...... the FBI has reopened its criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton.Last night it was just confirmed that the 650,000 -- can you believe that number -- emails they discovered include brand-new emails not previously seen by authorities. Likely, they will be classified information, loaded. However, the reports also show that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying very hard, actually as hard as they can, to protect Hillary Clinton from the FBI -- from the FBI.And I salute the FBI for taking the step.Remember, John Podesta, her top person, said Hillary Clinton has bad instincts. WikiLeaks. Bernie Sanders said she has bad judgment. So, if she's got bad instincts, I mean, if she's got bad judgment, why are we putting her to run for president, right? I mean, why is she running? Bad instincts. Now, you know, Sanders was running against her so he says bad judgment. Here's a guy works works with her all the time, and he puts in an email that Hillary has bad instincts. That's not who we want for president, folks.And then you have President Obama, instead of getting jobs, instead of taking care of our military...... instead of beating ISIS, he is out campaigning all the time. He ought to go back to the Oval Office and go to work.She created an illegal email server to shield her criminal activity and then she illegally destroyed 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. The key word is after.So she gets the subpoena -- congressional subpoena. You don't get any better than that, and she said you better get rid of these. Well, she said it was about the wedding and about yoga, remember? Thirty-three thousand. But I have a feeling the 650,000 will do very nicely.If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. This will go on for years, folks.If she ever got into the Oval Office, Hillary and her special interests would rob our country blind.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words we are all about to say. When we win on November 8th, we are going to drain the swamp.I keep telling people, I hated that expression. I said it's so hokey. And then one group heard it, they went crazy. Another group heard it, then we had a big, big rally in Florida. They went crazy about it, and now I love it. It's true. It's very accurate.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.The great state of Pennsylvania has lost almost 40 percent of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Crooked Hillary Clinton.One of the most amazing statistics that I've ever heard, something I thought was a typographical error, America has lost, not 700, not 7,000, which I assumed it might be, has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill Clinton and Hillary backed deal.We are living through the greatest job theft in the history of the world. Tyco laid off 808 workers in Harrisburg and Carlisle, and moved their jobs to China, India and Mexico.G.E. Connectivity laid off 102 workers in Middletown, and moved their jobs to China, Vietnam and Singapore.Codai laid off 100 workers, moved their jobs to China.Dura-Bond Pipe laid off 145 workers and moved their jobs overseas.A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America, and we will stop the jobs from leaving Pennsylvania.The theft of American prosperity will end. It's ending. If a company wants to fire their workers, leave Pennsylvania, move to another country like Mexico, which is taking so many of our companies, and the ship their products back into the United States where we will soon have, by the way, a very strong and powerful border.We will make them pay a 35 percent tax on those products coming in.Now you know what's going to happen, right? They're not leaving. They won't leave. And if they do, we're going to make a lot of money. They're going to pay a lot of tax. But they won't leave, they won't leave.A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much, much, much better deal for our workers.We will also immediately stop the job killing Transpacific Partnership, another disaster in the making. As part of her plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American businesses from 35 percent to 15 percent.We will massively cut taxes for the middle class, most importantly.And by the way, Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes very substantially.You saw that during the debate. By the way, who won the debates? Who won the debates?You know, she kept saying she is working on debate prep for weeks. Oh, she's always working on debate prep.You know, if you're doing this stuff for 35 years, why does she need so much debate prep? Like a week and a half before the debate, she was at her home. Why isn't she leaving? She is working on debate prep.I felt guilty. I mean, how much you have to learn, right? That was just an excuse to rest and go to sleep, OK? Believe me.By the way, two friends of mine -- and have to tell you -- they are -- I don't even know where they are. This is a hard one to find. I'll tell you why.You know, a great, great couple, Barbara and Hugh Rone. Do you know about their son Riley, Riley Rone? Where are they? Are they around here someplace? Where are they? Come up here if you can.Do you mind? Do you mind?Come on, tell the Secret Service. Believe me, they're OK to come up, right? That would be the surprise of all time.These are incredible people. Their son recently passed away in a horrible accident. He was the biggest supporter I had, young guy, beautiful guy, the most popular person there was. And he was just very special. And I want to introduce -- and if you'd like to say a few words -- Riley. Riley was their son.As much as some of you like Trump, I like you more than you like me if you want to know the truth. This boy was our biggest fan. He loved our country, believe me. He loved our country.Say a few words about our boy, OK?They know him.She does a good job, doesn't she?Wow! Oh boy, I didn't expect that. So we'll dedicate this evening to Riley, OK?Boy, that takes courage. Hard to go back to the economy after that, right? Thank you very much. That was so beautiful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.We will unleash American energy, including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal.We will put our miners back to work. We will put our steel workers back to work.You know what's happened to your state with respect to miners and steelworkers, and Hillary wants to do the opposite. We're going to put them back to work. They're going to be happier than ever before.And my infrastructure plan will provide help for projects like -- did you ever hear of a place called the "Pennsylvania Turnpike."Needs some help. Needs some work. We spend all these trillions all over the place; we can't fix our potholes in the Pennsylvania Turnpike or anywhere else. Our country is going to hell. Unbelievable, you look at our infrastructure of this country.We will also rebuild our inner cities. They are so bad. The African-American community, the Hispanic community, people living in the inner cities have been treated so unfairly. They have been run for -- sometimes more than 100 years unbroken by Democrats and people with the wrong ideas.They're unsafe. You can go shot walking to the store for a loaf of red. They're unsafe.They have the worst education. They have no jobs -- no jobs. You look at unemployment rate of African-American youth, you look at it, it's 58 percent -- 58 percent.And I say, give me a chance, I will fix it. I actually go, "What the hell do you have to lose?" Believe me, I will fix it.We will all fix it together. It will be a great thing. We have to fix it. We have to fix it. We're going to fix it. We're going to fix the inner cities. We will become a rich nation once again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees...... and that's over and above the thousands and thousands and thousands that are right now pouring into our country under Obama. Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities. You know what's happened.When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.You know, just in standing and watching and looking at this incredible spirit, right up to the tiny corners of the room...... with thousands and thousands of people standing outside watching big screens, anybody want to switch places with them?I say, isn't it sad that the most dishonest people there are -- the media -- don't spin the cameras and show them this crowd?Isn't it sad? They never show the crowd. They never show the crowds.Today, Obama had a protester and the protester -- if I have one, they immediately pick out the protester even though the protesters, we just found out through WikiLeaks, were paid $1,500 to go into our rallies and be violent, right?And in Chicago, they badly hurt policemen. They badly hurt other people, although our people can take care of themselves very nicely.But whenever there's a protester, the only time those cameras move, the only time they pick out a protester because that's a negative thing, right? And yet, Obama today spoke in front of a much smaller crowd than this, by the way, and there was a protester and a protester that likes us. And what happened is they wouldn't put the cameras on them. They kept the cameras on Obama, and I said, "That's strange." You saw it today on television, right? He was talking to the protester, screaming at him, really screaming at him.You have to go back and look and study, and see what happened. They never moved the camera, and he spent so much time screaming at this protester. And frankly, it was a disgrace. It was -- and he shouldn't be there, and he shouldn't be there to start off with.But I'd love to see them spin the cameras. I'd love to see them go outside and see -- I mean, this arena is massive, but I'd love to see them go outside and see the thousands and thousands of people...... that are outside.Look at the cameras, they don't move, folks. They don't move. They don't move. They're right here.They don't move. They don't want to show it, folks. They don't want to show it, but they're not happy.They see the polls. We're leading in Ohio.We're leading in Iowa. We're leading in North Carolina.We're leading in New Hampshire. We're leading in Florida.And I actually think we're leading in the great state of Pennsylvania.I love you people, but they won't show.Watch, you go home, you won't see the crowds. They won't -- they won't talk about them. You got to see Hillary show have like 300, 400 people.What a joke. What dishonesty.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States, and yes...... and yes, we will build a great wall.Build a great wall.Who is going to pay for the wall?One hundred percent. They don't know it, but they're paying. Honestly, they do know it, they do know it and that's all right.I met two months ago with the President of Mexico, good guy. We'll work things out. We'll have better relationships with Mexico. We'll have better relationships with China.Look at China, we have a trade deficit with China of almost $500 billion a year. Think of it. China, think of it. And yet they taunt us with building a massive fortress right smack in the middle of the South China Sea. They're not supposed to be doing it. We have no relationship with China and yet they rip us.I've had a great relationship with China. The largest bank in the world is a tenant of mine in Manhattan, so many other things. We're going to have a great relationship with China, and I'm not angry at China, I'm angry at our leaders for allowing so many different countries to rip is off.That's who I'm angry with. All right. That will end.Does anybody have any doubt that that's -- and we will have -- honestly, we're going to have a better relationship with most of these countries. The reason is they don't respect us. They don't respect Obama. He's like a cheerleader, he's jumping up and down all over the place for Hillary. He shouldn't be doing that. He shouldn't be with her. He's got to be working.You know what, we're better off if he doesn't work. He'll only make bad deals we'll have to unscramble.We're better off.We received the first ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers, 16,500, first time they've ever endorsed a candidate. It's just been reported that as a result of our open borders, violent cartels have spread into all 50 of our states. More than 90% of those arrested are here illegally -- thank you very much.As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands and thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminals to go free because their home countries wouldn't take them back. They bring them to their countries and very intelligently, these countries would say we don't want the murderers, drug kings, the gang members, so they'd bring them in and the countries would say, "We're not taking them back. Bring them back to your country." And she was head of State Department and she said bring them back, we don't want to -- believe me, I promise you this. Never once -- never once will we be bringing anybody back, never once, never once.And if they come back into our country one year in jail, and if they come back a second time into our country, five years in jail and then 10 years in jail, and they won't be coming back. They're not going to be coming. Very few, believe me, when they know that, you know what we do, we capture them over and over and over, and we let them go.There have to be consequences, folks. There have to be consequences.Hillary supports totally open borders -- there goes your country -- and strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco...... where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant. And this immigrant, this illegal immigrant was deported at least five times. Not going to happen anymore, folks.Thousands of Americans would be alive today if not for the open border policies of Obama and Clinton. This includes Americans like Josh Wilkerson, whose mother I've gotten to know during the campaign. Josh was a student in a high school, good student, good kids, everybody loved him, who's murdered at the age of 17. He was tortured, strangled, beaten to death by the illegal immigrant, and then his body was set on fire. Everybody wanted this guy out. They wanted him incarcerated. In July, right here in Pennsylvania, an illegal immigrant with a previous deportation record, horrible record, raped a young child. The illegal immigrant had been arrested for aggravated assault on numerous occasions, but he was set free. He was set free. Everybody that knew him said, "Please, please don't set him free." He was set free by weak, ineffective policy -- by weak, ineffective leadership.A Trump administration will end this vast nightmare of violence. We're talking about thousands and thousands of incidents.We will protect American lives.We will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.We will stop illegal immigration, deport criminal aliens and dismantle every last criminal cartel that's in this country.And by the way, our local police who are so incredible, they know every one of these people. They know everyone. They have to put with them every day.When we win, you will finally have a government on your side fighting for your community and protecting your family.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We have no choice.That means new resources for the nearby Army War College that will train the next generation of Army leaders.Now Mosul, I talk about Mosul because I can't believe it, first of all, we have Mosul. It was the way we got out whether you wanted to be in Iraq. You should have been in Iraq, but we had Mosul. It was all done, but then Clinton and Obama did that crazy -- get out. They got out the wrong way, so they took Mosul back.Now, four months ago, I start hearing we're going to take Mosul, we're going to take -- and I say whatever happened to the element of surprise, right? So we had Mosul, but we essentially gave it up. Now we're going to take it.By the way, just so you understand, I've never even said this before, who benefits by us getting Mosul? You know, it's going to benefit Iran. We're not going to benefit because Iran is taking over Iraq. We handed that to them along with one of the dumbest deals I've ever seen, the $150 billion back.The $1.7 billion in cash that we gave these people, a terrorist -- number one terrorist nation -- $1.7 billion in cash and now they feel emboldened and they go and they harass our ships and they take our 10 sailors and humiliate the sailors, humiliate our country. It's not going to happen. Well, he said, "Never happen with you, I promise." It will never happen with me. I promise you that.I promise you that.But just to finish because we see the Army College, just to finish, so Mosul, we want to go into Mosul just four months ago because we want to get ISIS leaders, we think they're in Mosul. Well, if you want to get them you don't talk about it, right? You don't talk about it. You go get them and have the news conference later. Wouldn't that be nice?I always say what ever happened to the element of surprise. So four months ago I heard it, then three months, then two months. In the meantime, you know, they're buried in there. They are using human shields. We have no choice but to take ISIS out, we have to because they're chopping off heads. They're doing things. When you read the history books not since medieval times has anything like this happen.And it formed during this period of time of Hillary Clinton. Now Hillary is saying, "We will get ISIS." What the hell did she let it start for?Now ISIS is in 32 countries all around the world, and what a shame it is. We have people in leadership that are grossly incompetent. We're going to change it, we're going to change it fast, OK?I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. You saw that last night, right near Fort Bragg -- great place, great people.We had 21,000 people last night. We had more people last night than I have tonight, although if you include the people outside, we may have them.We may have them. I'm not sure. I think if you include outside, we may have more than that.Hillary Clinton brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya and she empowered Iran, and she unleashed ISIS all across the world.Hillary and our failed establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that we don't win, and now the Middle East is in far worst shape and far more dangerous than it ever was before. They dragged us into foreign wars that makes us less safe, shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries, and they had left our borders wide open at home. We go into wars and we set strong borders, but at home we have no borders.We send our troops to foreign countries to defend their borders, but our politicians refuse to defend our borders. That will change on November 8th, believe me.That will change, November 8th. That will be a big day.A Trump administration will never ever put the interest of a foreign country before the interest of our country ever.To the people of Pennsylvania, to all of the people in the United States I say, from now on, it's going to be America First.To all Americans I say it is time for change and time for new leadership. We need it.We just cannot have four more years of Obama because that's what we're getting if we do this. It's four more years. It's ISIS running rampant. It's no borders. It's bad jobs. You see the jobs reports, they're horrible. You saw what happened just two days ago. The jobs report is a disaster, and they're all bad jobs because our good jobs are disappearing. It's -- it's no good folks. Four more years, we can't have it.Can you imagine -- can you imagine? I saw these great men, these great admirals last night, these great generals, these are great people, strong, smart. I saw these unbelievably brave recipients of the Medal of Honor, and I said to them, "How would you feel to have Hillary Clinton as your leader?" And they're -- they're wonderful Americans...... and I refuse to tell you what they said, but it wasn't good, believe me.Bad judgment, remember. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan and maybe bigger, and Hillary is going to raise that.We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order...... protect religious liberty...Rebuild our military and take care of our great, great veterans, our great people.They've been horribly, horribly taken care of.Provide school choice and put an end to common core, we're bringing our education local.Support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.And today in New York City, two policemen were -- as you know, were horribly shot. It goes on and on and on.We're going to save our Second Amendment, which is totally under siege...... and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States, so important.It's time to cut our ties with the failed politicians of the past. Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future.We are the movement of the future. This is a great movement. This is a movement that's never happened before ever in the history of our country, ever in the history. There's never been anything like it.And I will say -- and I understand how the system works, I understand the system, I guess, as well as anybody understands.I was on the other side. I was enjoying it very much. I also love our country and it can no longer work that way, it's not fair. It can no longer work. We won't have a country.And boy, oh boy, so I went from being an insider. Did I ever become an outsider? Wow! I became a serious outsider.But we're all outsiders, and that's the way we like it. We're all outsiders, but it's a movement like it's never been seen before. And even of the dishonest people back there and the pundits, they say -- some of them say it's the single greatest political phenomena that they've ever seen in this country.And it is. And that's why we cannot do anything that's going to stop it. We have to get out.Pennsylvania, you are so important. Everyone talks Pennsylvania, if you win Pennsylvania, you're going to win, Pennsylvania.Now we're doing great all over the state. And I really believe I'm going to do well in Philadelphia because that's where I went to school specifically. I love Philadelphia. Don't disappoint us, Philadelphia.We'll do great things for Philadelphia.But there's so much about Pennsylvania that's so important. And get out November 8th and vote.We are fighting for every parent who lost their child to gangs and drugs and violence. We are fighting for every community who's jobs have been ripped out and shift to other countries. And we are fighting for every American who believes government should serve the people not the donors and not the special interests.I'm asking you to dream big because with your vote, can you believe this? We're just four days away.And -- and folks, I'll tell you what, it's not going to happen again. It's not going to happen in four years. It's over. This is it. He's just saying that's it. This is it, folks. In four years, it's going to be a whole -- it will never -- it will never ever happen again. It's our last chance, the last chance.Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again.We will make America safe again. We will make America great again.Thank you. God bless you everybody. Go out and vote. Thank you.Thank you very much. Wow. Wow.Thank you very much, folks. Now, we have a little difficulty because we have about 3,000 people, maybe 4,000 outside. Should we wait for them to come in?I agree. Let's get going. You people were here from, like, 2:00 in the morning, they tell me.But we're going to get going. Thank you very much. And we don't need Jay-Z to fill up arenas, you know. We do it the old-fashioned way. We do it the old-fashioned way, folks, we fill them up because you love what we're saying and you want to make America great again. That's about it.And I actually like Jay-Z, but, you know, the language last night, oh, ooh. I was thinking, "Maybe I'll just try it." Should I use that language if I want to...Can you imagine if I said that? So -- he used every word in the book. I won't even use the initials because I'll get in trouble. They'll get me in trouble. He used every word in the book last night.And by the way, in Hershey, Pennsylvania, last night, we had an arena. We had 27,000 people show up. Maybe they couldn't get in. Far more -- far more than Jay-Z had with their free tickets. Free tickets. Far more. And Beyonce. And I like them both. But he used language last night that was so bad, and then Hillary said, "I did not like Donald Trump's lewd language."My lewd language. I tell you what -- I've never said what he said in my life. But that shows you the phoniness of politicians and the phoniness of the whole system, folks.In three days, we are going to win the great state of Florida.And we are going to win back the White House.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.It's just been announced that the residents of Florida -- I'm sorry to tell you this -- are going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike. And I know what it is. I say this to everybody. I know -- I just don't want to destroy the spirit in the room. It's going to be a massive hike. So, congratulations. It's not going to matter, because if we win, I'm throwing it out anyway. So it doesn't make any difference. But get ready. You're going to have a big, big, big hike. Hopefully, it won't make a damn bit of difference.In the great state of Arizona, where I was just a couple of days ago and where I'm going, premiums are going up by more than 116 percent.Going to go higher than that. Over 90 percent of the counties in Florida are losing Obamacare insure. And think of it. They're losing their insurers. Over 90 percent of the counties. And remember -- and most of you were there -- almost all of you felt this whole movement right from the beginning when we came down for the primaries, right? We won 66 out of 67 counties, 66 out of -- Florida is just a place I love. My second home. I'm here all the time.I might know Florida better than you do. But my second home. But we won 66 out of 67 counties. That's never happened before. We almost -- we almost won that last one, too. And I see maybe even more enthusiasm right now than I did then. I think there's more enthusiasm.You see the tremendous lines of people, and they have Trump hats on, make America great again. But they have Trump hats on and they have buttons and they have shirts, and they're on line, and you see NBC, and you see these people...Total phonies. The most dishonest people. And they'll say, it looks like it's going -- there was one line where it was like 100 percent with Trump regalia. Now, maybe they're in disguise, maybe they're wearing buttons, shirts, and Trump hats, but they're actually going to vote for Crooked Hillary. Do you think that's possible?But you see these lines, and the woman says, "Yes, I'd say it's very evenly based." So the great state of Texas, you heard -- you heard -- can you believe all these people at 10 o'clock in the morning -- great. They got here at 2 o'clock in the morning, many of them.So the great state of Texas, an incredible place. I go there. We have these massive crowds. And about two weeks ago, I was hearing the phonies in the media, and they're going, very, very strongly, "Texas is in play." Oh, we have a Hillary Clinton person. Are they paying that person $1,500?Get 'em out, please. Get 'em out.I must tell you, the Bernie Sanders protesters had much more enthusiasm and spirit than this one. The problem with these Hillary protesters is my people make all the noise. They're always going there, there. You can't even hear the person.By the way, did you see -- before I get to Texas, did you see yesterday Obama screaming and screaming...... and screaming? Just like the way he runs the country. Nobody listens to him. Screaming, OK? And I wanted to see the protesters, because these lying, thieving people back there, the media, they don't ever show -- they don't ever show my crowds.I was saying to them the other night, Hershey, I was saying, "You've got to show -- you've got to turn the camera." They just -- every one of them right up my face, right? The only time they'll turn the cameras is if there's a protester, because that's a bad thing, right?So last night, Obama had a protestor, and they wouldn't turn the camera to the protester. It's the first time I've ever seen that. They kept it on him, but it was bad, because he kept screaming the same thing over and over again. And nobody would listen to him.But they had the great state of Texas, so -- about three weeks ago, they'd say -- you know, they do these phony polls, right? Some of the polls are great. I only really acknowledge them if I'm winning, so -- and by the way, we're winning in a lot of polls!A lot of polls.We don't have enough time to talk about it now. There's too many of them.Oh, I love those signs, "Blacks for Trump." Ho-ho-ho, oh. That seems to be -- that seems to be the big surprise so far of this election, "Blacks for Trump." Thank you, fellas. That's so great. Thank you so -- that is great. Thank you. Thank you very much.That's a great honor. Believe me, that's a great honor. So they kept saying, "The great state of Texas is in play." Now, you know, it's supposed to be sort of a Republican stronghold. Not supposed to be in play. I said, oh, man, I call my people. What's going on with Texas? Because I was just there, we had a crowd, 20,000, 22,000, 15,000, every time I went. We had these massive crowds. They had a line that went so long that local media is much more honest than these dishonest guys, you know. The local media -- and they were showing the line went all the way -- it went -- literally, it went miles.So then I get back, and three weeks ago, "Texas is in play. It's even." And I say, that's bad news. Bad, I don't want to lose Texas. That's bad news. One little problem. One little problem. We're killing them in Texas. We're killing them.A guy gets on two days ago, a man named Sid Miller. Don't really know him. Wearing a big, beautiful, white cowboy hat. In fact, I want to find out where he got it. It's pretty nice. And he said, "You know, you folks are getting it all wrong. These lines are four, five, six blocks long. We've never had anything like this in Texas. And let me tell you, all those folks, they're all voting for Trump. They're not voting for anyone else."So, Texas, we're just absolutely -- we're doing great in Texas. But we're doing great in New Hampshire. We're doing great in Iowa. We're doing great in Ohio. Ohio. Just left, going back again soon. Doing phenomenally well in North Carolina.I think we're going to win Pennsylvania.I think we're going to win Pennsylvania. We're right there. I saw they had -- you know, and even is not, like, my thing. You know, we're even. But they had me way down in Pennsylvania, then last night, I'm looking, two or three polls came out. "Jim, Trump is -- he's even now in Pennsylvania, too." This is not -- you know, you can see the -- because they protect Hillary. I don't understand it. I don't understand why.When this is all over with, I'm going to sit down with the dishonest media, I'm going to have an honest talk. Why? What is she going to do? She's -- she's a dishonest person. She has no energy. You know, you need energy to help this country. Like, for instance, I'm going to be doing five or six of these every day. You need energy here, folks. She goes home and she goes to sleep.You need a lot of energy, so we're going to be doing at least five of these today. The arenas are all packed all over the country. And we're going into different locations. We're going into what they used to call Democrat strongholds where we're now either tied or leading. We're going to Minnesota.We're going up to Minnesota, which traditionally has not been Republican at all, and we're doing phenomenally. We just saw a poll. We're going to Colorado, where we're doing phenomenally well. We're doing well everywhere. We're doing well in places that they don't believe. They're saying, "What's going on?"Anyway, with Obamacare, getting back to the boring subject -- it's almost a waste of time talking about it, because when we terminate it, all we'll do is say it was a bad experience for the American people. You know.Premiums are surging because of Obamacare. Companies are leaving. Insurers are fleeing. Doctors are quitting. And deductibles are going through the roof, some as high as $15,000, some higher than that. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even much more expensive. Going to make it much more expensive.You know what they're going to do, her and Obama? They're going to show you -- and they don't care what it takes -- they're going to show you that it works. They're going to listen to Trump, never give up. OK? They're going to show you. OK, we don't want to be shown. I'll tell you what, it is catastrophic.I'm asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and have health care for every family in Florida and great health care. Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.As you know, the FBI -- and I give them a lot of credit, because they're fighting forces that they're not supposed to be fighting -- has reopened its criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton.They're also conducting a second criminal investigation into Hillary Clinton's pay-for-play corruption at the State Department. You see what's happening there. It has been confirmed that the 650,000 emails they discovered -- by accident -- can you believe it, 650,000 emails, oh, that's a treasure trove. That is going to be a lot of bad emails in there. They discovered it on Anthony Weiner's -- think of that -- can you imagine? Anthony Weiner has probably every classified email ever sent. And knowing this guy, he probably studied every single one, in between using his machine for other purposes.Including brand-new emails not previously turned over to authorities, likely including some very, very classified information. However, the reports also show that the political leadership at the Department of Justice is trying very hard and as hard as they can to protect their angel, Hillary.Remember, Bill Clinton just happened when he was in Phoenix, Arizona -just happened to see her plane, the attorney general's plane. Oh, there's the attorney general. Oh, what a -- what an unbelievable -- he was going to play golf. It was about 110 degrees. He was going to play golf. Oh, I was going to play golf. Let me say hello. Hey, let's get together. Boom. I thought it was 39 minutes. Turned out to be 45 minutes.So went onto the plane on the tarmac, and right on the tarmac, and they had a meeting for 45 minutes, right before she was supposed to issue her judgment on Hillary and maybe Bill. Bill could be a target, who knows? Because of what's going on.So she met with him for 45 minutes. They discussed golf. That's about two minutes. They discussed grandchildren. Give them five. The rest of the time, what do you think they discussed? I would say, like, "I hope you're going to be a part of our administration." What do you think? What a disgrace. I'll tell you what, our country has never been in a situation like it's in right now. Never been. So dishonest. It's a rigged system, folks. I've been saying it. It's a rigged system, and it begins with the media, because the media rigs it. The media rigs it.Did you see all those reports where The New York Times is sending them things, and they're saying, listen, we've got this reporter essentially, 100 percent, this is friendly stuff, where other reporters are sending them stories to check? Do you have any change? It's never happened to me. Man. I used to -- actually, I used to get good publicity until I decided to run. Now, I think I have -- and they even say -- actually, the Times said, one of the writers at the Times, said we don't care, we don't care if it's fair or not. It's so out of control, we don't care.It's the greatest pile-on in the history of politics, and that's OK. I used to be on the other side, don't forget. I did very well. But I also love our country, and it was time. It was time we had to do something. It was time. But that's a big part, right there. A big part of the rigged system.Remember, John Podesta said Hillary Clinton has bad instincts, right? And I say to people, I'd fire him. If he was saying bad -- he says so many bad things about her, and he's her top person. He knows her well. And I don't want a president with bad instincts, and she does. All you have to do is look at her record. Bernie Sanders says that she's got bad judgment.Hillary created an illegal server to shield her criminal activity. That's why. There's no other reason. And then she -- and she figured she was above it, because she figured the Department of Justice will never do anything to get in her way, OK? It's a rigged system.The Department of Justice, if that happened to anybody else, they would have been in jail two years ago, folks, OK? What she did. Then she illegally destroyed -- and this is -- this is -- forget about what happened last Friday. I'm talking about the past. Forget about that -- that's all gravy, whatever happened. What she did in the past is so bad. She destroyed 30,000 -- remember this -- 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena -- the key word being "after " -- and made 13 phones disappear, some with a hammer.If she were to win, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. Remember, if she ever got into the Oval Office, Hillary and her special interests and her donors would rob this country blind. I have no doubt about it.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take back our country from the special interests.I want the entire, corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words we -- we are about to say. When we win on November 8th, we are going to drain the swamp. Going to do it.They're not happy, folks. They're not happy. There are a lot of unhappy people around. At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back your jobs that have been stolen, stolen by either very stupid politicians or corrupt politicians, meaning special interests get them to do whatever they want them to do.Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary.America has lost 70,000 factories -- that's such a hard number to believe, 70,000 -- since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill- and Hillary-backed disaster. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. There's never been a country that's lost jobs like we do, so stupidly, so easy to solve, so stupidly.Believe me. Oh, we'll build a wall. Don't even think about it. We'll build a wall. Don't worry about it.And you know what? The harder they fight us, the higher it goes, OK? I promise.No, but I met with the president of Mexico. Look -- and he's a good guy, good guy. Good meeting, all of that. But -- look, we have a one-lane highway, goes right into Mexico. It takes our jobs, takes our money, takes our wealth, takes everything. We get unemployment and we get drugs. Not going to happen anymore, folks.A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and will stop the jobs from leaving the great state of Florida, that I can tell you.The theft of American prosperity will end quickly and effectively. If a company wants to fire their workers, leave Florida, move to another country, and then shift their product back into the United States, we will make them pay a tax of 35 percent.OK? That it. Problem solved. Problem solved. Ninety-nine percent -- and you never heard this talk before. You know, they give them loans. "Oh, we want you to stay." They don't even talk to most of them. You know, most of them just leave. Nobody talks to them. We'll talk to them. And at first -- at first, we'll be very nice, right? First, we'll be very nice and respectful, and when they tell us, no, no, no, then we'll say, OK, here's the story, folks. Let's not be nice anymore.And you know what's going to happen with that tax? They're never going to leave this country. They're never leaving. He knows. They're never going to leave this country. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA. And if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers.We will immediately stop the job-killing Transpacific Partnership, another disaster in the making that Hillary Clinton said is the gold standard. Yeah, it's the gold standard for other countries, not for us. The gold standard for the countries that want to be part of that deal.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we're going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent. We're the highest taxed nation in the world, one of the main reasons that they're leaving. We will massively cut taxes for the middle class, also.And by the way, don't hear it from me. Just look at it. Hillary Clinton is going to raise taxes substantially. Highest taxed nation, she wants to raise taxes substantially. That's not going to happen. We will also cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations and use that money to invest in America.That includes repairing so many of Florida's problems.Thank you. Thank you. We're going to repair so many of Florida's problems, and everyone's problems, including the Herbert Hoover dike, which is big problem, and the Florida aquifer. And we're going to protect the Everglades. We're going to do all of the things -- but we're going to have so much money left over, folks. You know what we want? You know what we want? We want really beautiful, clean air, right? We want really crystal, crystal clean water. And we want safety.We don't need to give hundreds of billions of dollars away -- we have no idea who's getting this money -- giving it to the United Nations. You know what that's called? Giving it to an open pit. You know how political the United -- can you imagine, as these guys are doling out that money, no, no, we're going to keep our money here and we're going to take care of our infrastructure, and we're going to take care of our environment, and we're going to lower taxes.We will also rebuild our inner cities. The African-American community has been treated terribly, terribly. That's why I'm so honored to see those signs. And I'm telling you, that's turning out to be the story of this election, the African-American vote.Watch. You watch. They've been treated very unfairly. African-American and Hispanic people living in the inner cities -- there's no -- oh, you like that, Hispanics, huh?How many Hispanics do we have here?And, by the way, that's a big story. You know, as you know, the Cubans just endorsed me. They gave me the Bay of Pigs Association Award.We'll be making a much different deal than they made with Castro. Believe me, folks. They're very happy. But that's another story that's turning out to be very big. The Hispanic vote is turning out to be much different than people thought.But the African-American community, the Hispanic community, folks living in the inner cities, crime-ridden -- you can't walk to the store and buy a loaf of bread, you get shot. The education is the worst. And there's no jobs. We're going to fix the education, we're going to bring back jobs, and we're going to bring back safety.And I say to the Hispanic community, living in the inner-city, to the African-American community, I say: What the hell do you have to lose? I'm going to fix it. I'm going to fix it. I am going to fix it.You know, the Democrats have been running that whole thing for up to 100 years unbroken, and they come in, they say, "We want your vote, we you're your vote." And then you give them the vote -- you know this, fellas, right? You know that. They know. You give them their vote and they disappear for four years. They say, "See you, folks. See you in four years."And then they come back again and again. We have to show them it doesn't work that way anymore. And they'll never be able to do -- they'll never be able to do what I do.Look, I'm here -- I'm doing five or six of these a day. And Hillary goes home, she goes to sleep. If she wanted to do it, which she doesn't. She doesn't have the energy to do it, believe me. We will become a rich nation again, but to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees pouring into this country...... over and above the thousands and thousands and thousands that are already coming in. Do you want to see a problem? This will be the great Trojan horse modern day version. Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism, and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities. When I'm elected president, we will suspend immediately the Syrian refugee program...... and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.You look at what's happened in France. You look at what's happened in Germany. No. And we all have big hearts. We'll build safe havens. We'll get the gulf states to put up the money. We owe -- you know, we owe -- what do we owe, $20 trillion? We owe $20 trillion. Think of it. But I'll get the gulf states -- they have plenty of money. They have so much money they don't know what to do with it. They just have to be told nicely, right? They're going to put up the money. We'll build safe havens in Syria, but we can't have this, folks. We have enough problems. We don't need these kind of problems. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.And as we said, yes, we will build a great wall.We received the first-ever endorsement issued by America's ICE and Border Patrol officers. It's just been reported that, as a result of our open borders, violent cartels have spread into all 50 states. More than 90 percent of those arrested are here illegally. Aren't you shocked? Ninety percent -- think of that -- 90 percent are here illegally.Thank you, darling. I love you, too. It's so nice. Oh, look, a future construction worker. Look. Look at that baby. He's so cute. Oh, give me that baby.Future construction worker.They did a great job. Wow. That is a great, beautiful baby. Congratulations. That's an early Trump fan, right? That's an early United States fan.Anyway, back to the basics. After going through that, I hate to say this, but these terrorists are killing innocent Americans, threatening schools, and destroying our communities. A government that will not protect its people is a government that is unworthy to lead. That's all.As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminals to come into the country, go free, and wouldn't send them back to their home countries, and when they did, their home -- their home countries very, very intelligently said, "We don't want them. Take them back, and we would never force them in."I promise you, when we take these killers and gang members and drug lords back to their countries, they will be accepted gladly by their country, OK? Thank you so much for bringing this killer back, Mr. Trump. We totally appreciate it. They'll say, "President Trump, thank you, sir. We very much like it. We're so, so happy. Mr. President, we are so, so happy to have our drug lords back, to have our killers back, to have our gang members back. Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of " -- I won't use the name of the country.Hillary supports total, open borders -- that means the end of your country -- and strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant and deported. This was a man deported probably more than five times. Thousands of Americans would be alive today if not for the open border policies of Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton.And by the way -- and I've said it -- this guy is campaigning full-time. She can't campaign for herself. Nobody shows up to her meetings. The only way she gets them to show up is when she has a star come. That's the only way. Otherwise, she gets 500 people, 400 people, and by the way, the cameras never show that.Can you imagine if I had a small crowd? There would be headlines all over the world, "Trump is not -- you know, is not doing it, " right? But she has these little crowds show up. It's a big problem. Look, she can't do more than one or two a day because she has no energy, but she can't do it because they can't get any people.But Obama goes and campaigns for her. He ought to spend time in the Oval Office getting jobs, defeating ISIS, strengthening up our border. Among those killed, Americans like Josh Wilkerson, whose mother I've gotten to know during this campaign. Josh was a student in a high school, great student. He was murdered at the age of 17. He was tortured, strangled, and beaten to death by an illegal immigrant who should have never been in our country, and then his body was set on fire.You ought to look at the Remembrance Project. These people are amazing people. These are people that suffered so much. Last year, right here in Florida, 17-year-old Starlette Pitts, her boyfriend and her mother were viciously stabbed to death in their Lehigh Acres home by an illegal immigrant. The killer had been convicted of assaulting a police officer and was wanted for double murder and robbery, but he was released from custody, enabling him to commit these and other horrible crimes.And the people that knew him begged that he be incarcerated or begged that he be thrown the hell out of our country. And the Obama administration with their weak policies refused to listen. Death. A Trump administration will end this nightmare of violence. We will protect American lives. We will cancel all federal funding of sanctuary cities.Very quickly. We will stop illegal immigration, deport every last criminal alien, and dismantle every criminal gang and cartel threatening our great citizens.When we win this election, you will finally have a government on your side fighting for your community and protecting your family.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. Greatest people on Earth.That means brand-new modern aircraft from MacDill and -- we have to do this. Anybody -- MacDill? We're going to have beautiful, beautiful new -- you know, right now our fighter jets, some are so old they can't get parts, they don't make them anymore, 18, 19 years old. They did a big documentary about it. We're going to take care of those brand-new beautiful jets out of MacDill, OK?I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. I actually heard we picked up about five today. And I want to thank the coach from getting up here and talking to you people. What a great coach. And Joe and your attorney general. You have so many great people. All the people that got up and spoke, I want to thank them. They're speaking all over the country. They're speaking all over the country.Hillary brought death and disaster to Iraq, Syria, Libya, and she empowered Iran. They've been empowered. They've been emboldened. We gave them $150 billion. And they hate us. But now they're strong. We've created them. We've -- they were ready to die. They were ready to come back and make any deal we wanted. And we took them out of the ashes and we made them perhaps a world power, not just a regional power. All Hillary Clinton's thinking, bad judgment, bad instincts. And she unleashed ISIS all across the world.During the debates, did I win the debates? Did I win the debates?You know, I was a little worried about the debate, because for a week and a half, I'd hear, "She's not going out of her house. She's doing debate prep." I said, wait a minute, how can you work that -- I mean, you're supposed to know this stuff, right? You know, I mean, she has a lot of experience. That's the one thing she has. She's got a lot of experience, but it's all bad experience. It's experience of losing.But she kept doing debate prep, right? And I felt guilty. I said, gee, I don't want to sit -- and what am I going to do in debate -- you mean 10 hours a day for a week-and-a-half? I can't do that. We're supposed to know the subject, aren't we? We're supposed to know the subject.Anyway, she did debate prep. I don't think it helped her very much. Hillary and her failed establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East that we never win. By the way, we fight, we keep fighting. We fight, fight, fight. And I always say General Douglas MacArthur, General George Patton, what are they doing? They're spinning in their graves. They can't believe it.Mosul, we go into Mosul. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be attacking Mosul in four months from now. Oh. Now, the people of Mosul -- you know, these guys are tough and they're smart, in all fairness. So the ISIS -- one of the reasons we're going to Mosul is we want to get the ISIS leaders. We think they're staying in Mosul and we want to get them.Well, before the announcement is over, they've gone. Whatever happened to the element of surprise? The element of surprise? What a group of losers we have. And now it's a very tough battle. They're dug in. It's a very -- much tougher than they thought. Much tougher than they thought.No, we need different thinking in this country, folks. They should have kept their mouths shut, quietly, quickly, and viciously go in, and then have a news conference when it's over a week later. Right? And I'm convinced they only did that for political reasons. They thought it was going to be a great, quick victory. It wasn't. It's a disaster. They thought it was going to be a quick victory.And you know, Hillary is running and then she'll get credit. Oh, she's -- she's -- except for one problem. We already had Mosul. So we gave it up because of the way they got out, and then ISIS was formed. ISIS is now in 32 countries.But during the debate, I watched, and she's saying, we're going to fix our tax code. Well, why didn't you do it? Because all of her people do the same thing. We're all doing the same thing. And we're going to fix our tax code. We're going to do this. We're going to do that. We're going to fix this.And I kept saying, you've been there for 30 years. Why didn't you do it? It will never happen. They've dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe, shipped our goods and our wealth and our companies to other countries. And they've left our borders wide open. So we have no borders. And yet we're over fighting for countries that a lot of people in this room have never heard of. And we want a border. We're fighting so they have a border, but we don't protect our own border.That will change on November 8th.A Trump administration will never, ever put the interests of a foreign country before the interest of our country.From now on, it's going to be America First. To all Americans, I say, it is time for change. It is time for new leadership.And in closing, I want you to think about...Thank you, folks. I just see a sign that I love. Let me see that. Let me see that. Let me see that. Yeah, let me have that. Let me have that. Let me have it. I love that sign. It's true. I love that sign. I love all the signs. Women for Trump, blacks for Trump, Hispanics for Trump. Thank you.I just found a second mike. I'm probably being wired or tapped here. That's got to be the Justice Department doing that. Saying, where does this mike -- I'm saying to myself, where the hell did the second mike come from?Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We're going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan, even bigger. She's going to raise your taxes. We will eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. Such a big thing. Such a big thing. Cancel every illegal Obama executive order. We are going to protect religious liberty. We will rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans like they've never been taken care of before. They've been badly treated. It won't happen. We already have a plan for the veterans, and they love it, and we have overwhelming support from the veterans, our great people. We don't take care of them.We will provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We'll bring our education local.We will support the men and women of law enforcement. We are going to save our Second Amendment, which is under siege. We have the endorsement of the NRA, National Rifle Association. And I have to tell you, these are great people -- Wayne and Chris and all of them -- they love this country. They love this country. They gave me the earliest endorsement they've ever given to a presidential candidate. We're going to save our Second Amendment. Great people.And we will appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.And it's time to cut our ties with the failed politicians -- like Hillary -- of the past. Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday. We are the movement of the future.And they've never seen a movement like this, folks. They've never, ever seen a movement like this. There has never been anything like this in this country's history. And we have to close it out on November 8th or sooner.By the way, who's voted?All right, that's about 80 percent. Twenty percent, leave right now. Vote. OK. Just before the 8th. The numbers are looking good, that I can tell you. Did you guys vote? Did you vote?Blacks for Trump, you voted, right? Good. Good. Thank you.We are fighting for every parent who lost their child to drugs and crime and gang violence. We are fighting for every community whose jobs and dreams have been ripped out of our country and shipped to other faraway lands. It's happening all the time.And we are fighting for every American who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.I'm asking you to dream big, because your vote -- think of this -- we are just three days away, do you believe it? Three days away. We'll bring about the change you've been waiting for your entire life. This will be a very important day. And I know that the vote that you cast will be the most important vote of your life, because our country doesn't win anymore. We will start winning. We will knock out ISIS. Believe me, we have no choice. We will knock them out. We will knock out ISIS.We will win at trade. We will win at the borders. We will start winning again. We'll win so much, you're going to get sick and tired of winning. Is that possible? You'll say, "Please, Mr. President, you're winning too much. Let's take it easy." We are going to win so much, you're going to be so proud of your country, and hopefully you're going to be proud of your president.Together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again. Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you. Get out and vote. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. Get out and vote.Wow! What a great room. On quick notice -- on quick notice, we didn't bring any so-called -- so-called "stars " along. We didn't need them.You know, the reason Hillary has to do that is nobody comes for her deal.She can't fill a room. We can get stars. We don't need them because we just want to make America great again and we know what to do, right?We don't need that. That's almost like a form of cheating, right?That's like when she got the questions from Donna Brazile to the debate, right?And she didn't report it. She went into the debate.Isn't that amazing, by the way? That took place and not one of the dishonest crooked media mentioned that. Nobody mentions it.Nobody mentions it.They go after Donna Brazile -- who cares -- but nobody says, "Wait a minute, she got the questions. She went into the debate." Nobody says anything. Why didn't she reported to Ethics or to somebody? You know why, because she is Crooked Hillary, that's why, folks.In three days, we are going to win...... the great state of Nevada...... and we are going to win back the White House.We need you all to go and vote on Tuesday and bring your friends and family to those polls. We're going to have a big, big victory. They didn't get the kind of vote that they needed to stop us on Tuesday. You know what that means, right? They didn't get the numbers they were looking for. You're going to have a big, big day. Tuesday is our day in the state, so...... Tuesday, so you got to get out there. We'll never have this opportunity again, not going to happen again.Reno and Northern Nevada can carry this state and can carry us all the way to Washington and the White House.This will be our last chance, but don't let crazy, broken Harry Reid and his corrupt political machine...... decide this election for you -- crazy Harry.Remember he said four years ago that he found out with surety that Romney didn't pay tax and called him also lots of names, remember? And then it turned out he did pay tax, but the election was over, and they said -- "But you lied. " He said, "We won, didn't we?"You know, I was right about that, but that's a political hack. For instance, it's being reported that certain key Democratic polling locations in Clark County were kept open for hours and hours beyond closing time to bus and bring Democratic voters in.Folks, it's a rigged system, it's a rigged system and we're going to beat it. We're going to beat it.I've been saying it's a rigged system.Obama who does nothing but campaign for Hillary because she can't campaign for herself, he's out there and he said, "Donald Trump is hurting the foundations of our country by talking about rigging the election." Excuse me, eight years ago he was talking about Chicago and how they rigged the votes, OK? This guy give -- you know what I say to President Obama, "Give me a break."Phony.And it's up to the great people of Washoe County to get it done, get it done. You got to get it done.You are the people, you're going to get it done. And don't forget, in this state, I've spent hundreds of millions of dollars building things. We have great success in this state. I have great, great employees. So I feel I have an awfully big state. I come here all the time. I love it.But to do that and to win, you have to get every single person that you know to the polls with you. You have to vote with your heart and I know you're going to do that. You have to vote with your soul to make America great again.Real change means restoring honesty to our government.Thank you everybody, thank you. Boy, a lot -- a lot of spirit in this room, huh?A lot of spirit, a lot of spirit. The place is great. The people here are great. The people in this state, from day one, first time I came here many, many years ago, the people in this state are amazing, so great.The state is going to have a very big impact or the outcome of our country -- forget the election -- on the outcome of our country, because if we win on Tuesday, our country is going to start winning again.We're going to start winning again. We don't win anymore.As you know, the FBI has reopened its criminal investigation...... into Hillary Clinton, following the discovery of another 650,000 emails, probably including the 33,000 emails that Hillary destroyed after receiving a congressional subpoena.They are also...Folks, folks, folks, she shouldn't be allowed to run. OK?And I'm not talking about what happened last Friday, I'm talking about right now. She shouldn't be allowed to run.When you look at General Cartwright, four-star general, for doing almost nothing by comparison, could serve five years in jail. That happened two weeks ago.General Petraeus destroyed their lives for doing nothing by comparison.How about the young man took pictures of his submarine? He wanted to have some pictures. The submarine is not like it's a brand new submarine; it's many years old. They put them in jail for a year, and she does all of these different things.They're also conducting a second criminal investigation into Hillary's illegal pay-for-play corruption at the State Department.There's virtually no doubt that FBI Director Comey and the great, great special agents of the FBI will be able to collect more than enough evidence to garner indictments against Hillary Clinton and her inner circle despite her efforts to disparage them and to discredit them.If she were to win this election, it would create an unprecedented constitutional crisis. In that situation, we could very well have a sitting president under felony indictment and ultimately a criminal trial.It would grind government to a halt, of course, that's what we have right now under Obama anyway.We need a government that can work and work well from day one for the American people.That will be impossible with Hillary Clinton, the prime suspect in a massive far-reaching criminal investigation. Her current scandals and controversies will continue throughout her presence and will make it virtually impossible for her to govern or lead our country.Now I don't think it's going to matter because she's not going to win, but we'll -- let's...... let's go through the scenario.He's the greatest.Come here.Special guy. New York was crime-infested, filthy, dirty problems all over the place. Rudy came in. He straightened it out...... straightened it out.Thank you, Rudy, for everything.If she ever got into the Oval Office, Hillary and her special interests would rob our country blind. You see what's going on?At the heart of this election is one simple question, will our country be governed by the people or by the corrupt political class?If we win, the corrupt politicians and her special interests will lose. If they win, the American will lose. It's just that simple.The political elites in this country have used their power to enrich themselves at your expense. They have run the government for their benefit and they've profited from your pain. You see what's happening.And by the way, folks, you're highly sophisticated. And I always say I have the smartest people, smartest...... the smartest. And I have the most loyal people...... by far, and that's borne out in every poll they take. In fact, they are very worried, you know, with all the polls that are happening. We're winning all over the place.We're winning in Iowa. It just came out, we're seven points up.We're winning in Ohio.We're winning in New Hampshire.We're winning in North Carolina.I think we're going to win the great state of Pennsylvania.Based on turnout, I think we're going to win Florida.And you know where else we're going to win? Right here.So this is the choice on Tuesday, either we will have a government run by the donors and the special interests who control everything and control Crooked Hillary Clinton...... or we will have a government run by you, the American people. That's what we're doing.There has never been a movement like this in the history of the United States.And you know I couldn't say that if it weren't true because of these very, very dishonest reporters back there in the media.They would call us out for that. There's never been a movement like this, never been the crowds which they never show, by the way, they never show. This was set-up so recently and look at all the people. There's never been the crowds. There's never been the enthusiasm, and there's never been the loyalty that we have, never been in this country.And someday they'll start reporting it correctly, but I almost think it doesn't matter because we get it, we get it. Total dishonesty.And while they are there, show the cameras, show the crowds, fellas. Go ahead, show the crowd, show the crowd.The only time they do it is where there's a protester because that's a negative thing. It turned out that the protesters we used to have were bought for $1,500 a piece, and they were told to go in and incite riots.And they cover the protesters. But last night, Obama had a protester...... and nobody would listen to him. He kept saying the same thing over and over -- nasty -- over and over and over. But they never showed the protester with him because that's a negative thing. They just kept it on him, but it was a pretty bad scene. Let me tell you the way he acted.If you want a government that will secure your borders, stop the massive inflow of refugees...... lower your taxes, bring back your jobs...... grow your economy and protect your family always.Vote for Donald J. Trump.Tuesday, that's going to be a big day. Thank you, everybody. What a crowd.What people, what people. Greatest people in the world. I'll tell you, folks, this country all over, no matter where we go, no matter where we go, we were in Hershey, Pennsylvania, the other night, unbelievable. We did numerous -- all over North Carolina, unbelievable. No matter where we go -- Florida, Texas.Remember last week, they were reporting Texas is in play -- Texas. Texas is in play, you know, like that was bad because she was supposed to win Texas easily. I said, "I'm surprised Texas is in play because I was there, we have this massive crowds." Actually, Rudy was there. We had a line that must have been two miles long, getting in, and that's because the place was small. Those were the people that didn't get in and so I said, "I'm surprised."Maybe they meant -- maybe they meant Texas is in play for Trump, I guess, because...... the great state, great state of Texas.So, as soon as the media looked at this record-setting vote, they took Texas is in play out of their vocabulary. These are really dishonest people.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and take your country back from the special interests.And I used to be on the other side until June 16th of last year. I went from being an insider. Boy, did I become an outsider fast?Well, that was the quickest outsider. But you know what, I love this country. I saw what was happening. It was going bad. We were really going bad.If you look at the Iran deal, $150 billion, look at a deal where we give these guys the number one terror nation, we give them $1.7 billion in cash -- cash...Remember it was supposed to be $400 million. Think of this, $400 million in cash, but that turned out to be wrong. It was $1.7 billion. You know what, $1.7 billion in cash, you could fill up that whole side of this big arena. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words of all of us. When we win on November 8th, we are going to drain the swamp.We're going to do it. We're going to bring in the right people. We're going to really turn things around. This is ridiculous what's going on.Real change also begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.You know I shouldn't tell you this, you've probably seen it, but I always use your state as the example for the premiums going up. You know why? We think you have the highest in the country. I don't want to tell you that. I don't want to tell you that. But I always use your state. They're all going up through, but you have the highest.You're going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike. The great state, right, the great state that you live in is going up numbers I will not tell you. In Arizona -- I'll give you an example -- they're going up 116 percent.Ten of Nevada's 16 counties will have only one Obamacare exchange insurer to choose from next year. Good luck with that negotiation. Good luck with that negotiation. Good luck. And your numbers are going to be really high, but I'm not going to depress you, but I know what they are.I want you to be happy when you leave, but actually you will because we're going to get rid of Obamacare anyway, so you're not going to have to pay. Don't bother.We're going to have great health care at much less cost and it's going to be much better. What's going on with Obamacare is -- never had a chance to work. And I said it before they even submitted it for a vote, and then Obama started lying that you can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor. He said it 28 different times.And in all fairness, even the Democrats that weren't going to vote for it got swayed by him. They wished they didn't do it now, I will tell you.Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, and deductibles are through the roof. You have deductibles, sometimes $15,000. Yet, Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive.I'm asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Nevada...... and for every family in this country.At the core of my contract is my plan -- so important -- to bring back your jobs.America has lost one-third of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by Hillary Clinton.America has lost 70,000 factories -- can you believe that number? I always thought it was a mistake. I've been saying that number now for two weeks, I can't believe it -- 70,000. I always think maybe 700, maybe 7,000 -- 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. Nobody has ever stolen jobs like other countries have taken them from us.A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America so easily, and we will stop the jobs from leaving Nevada.The theft of American prosperity will end and it will end immediately. We will renegotiate NAFTA, and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers and our companies.We will also immediately stop the job-killing Transpacific Partnership, which Hillary Clinton lied in the debate.By the way, did I win those debates please?Thank you. She kept saying she's in debate prep -- for weeks, she was in debate prep. I kept saying, you know, I felt guilty. I said there must be something to this debate prep. She just didn't want to go out campaigning. It was a good excuse. I mean, when you're doing this -- she's doing it for 30 years, right? More. I always say you've been doing it for so long, if you want to change the tax code, why didn't you do it?You want to fight ISIS, why didn't you do it? I mean, she created ISIS really. It came out of the vacuum. Now, ISIS is in 32 countries. She won't do anything with ISIS. But why don't you fix the things you want to fix? You talk about it, why don't you do it? You want to bring back jobs, bring back jobs.In New York State, she said she was going to bring back jobs. Upstate New York, it became a total disaster. Everyone left. You have to see it today. Greatest people, but you have to see what happened to Upstate New York.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We are going to massively cut taxes for the middle class, the forgotten people.And we will rebuild our inner cities, which are absolutely a shame. Watch out. And for the African-American community and for the Latino community...... remember this, the inner cities -- so unfair -- the Democrats have run them for over 100 years, in many cases, unbroken. And every four years they come in and ask for your vote -- we want your vote. And after you give them the vote and they win an election, they say, "See you in four years." They don't do anything.The crime is horrible. You can't walk to a store and get a loaf of bread without being shot, in many cases. You see what's happening.There were such potential. We have such incredible potential in our inner cities. We're going to fix our inner cities. And the African-American community, the Latino community, you're going to be so thankful you're going to love it.And I say to you and I say this because the Democrats have let you down for decades and decades and decades, I say to you what the hell do you have to lose, right?What do you have to lose? I will fix it. We are going to fix the inner cities. We're going to bring back jobs. We're going to make them safe. There's straighten out education. We will become a rich nation once again, but to be a rich nation we must also be a safe nation.Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees pouring into our country.Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your schools and into your communities.When I'm elected president, if you vote, otherwise it's not going to work out, you got to vote.We will suspend the Syrian refugee program...... and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country...We got no choice -- we got no choice.Thank you. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.And yes, we will build a wall.We will build a wall. It'll be a great wall, and it have big doors in it, and people will come through those doors but they'll come through those doors legally. We want people to come in legally.And we'll stop the drugs from pouring into our nation and destroying our youth and poisoning all -- so many people, so many people. We're going to stop the drugs from pouring in, believe me.As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of the most dangerous and violent criminal aliens to go free because their home countries very intelligently would not take them back. They didn't want murders. They didn't want gang members. They didn't want drug lords, but I promise you this, when we bring them back to their countries, not once -- not once will they ever come back to us in this life, not once.Hillary supports totally open borders -- there goes your country and strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered...... by an illegal immigrant deported more than five times. Thousands of Americans would be alive today if not for the open border policies of Obama and Clinton.On Mother's Day in 2009, Carson City-born 17-year-old Rene Angulo was out driving looking for a job when he was shot in the head and brutally murdered by a previously deported illegal immigrant gang member, who everybody that knew this gang member said, "Please get him out of the country. Please put him in prison. He must be incarcerated."Rene was pulled from his vehicle and left to die on the side of a road. A good Samaritan who thought there had been a car accident stopped to help and was violently shot. The illegal immigrant killer had a previous conviction involving murder in Carson City, but was released and allowed to roam free and did further damage after that.Other story after story, we could go for days and days and days, this story after story one worse than the other.A Trump administration will end this nightmare of violence. We will protect American lives. We will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.We will stop illegal immigration. And by the way, I have tremendous support within the Hispanic-Latino community -- tremendous...... because they came here -- they came here legally. They want to see borders. They have their jobs, which are great jobs. They have their homes. They want to keep their homes. They want to keep their jobs. They want other members of their families to come into our country and they will come in. They will come into our country.We're going to have other members of your families come in. They'll go through a process, and it won't be a process like you have now where people wait 10 and 12 years before they get in. We'll have a streamlined beautiful process. It will be efficient. It will be efficient, not the way it is now. So we've had this tremendous outpouring of love from the Hispanic community.A certain radio station in New York said the owner of the station was in another show, and it's all Spanish, and he was being interviewed. And he said, "You know, I don't know about this whole thing with Trump because everybody that calls us -- every single person is in favor -- is in favor of Trump, so we're going to have tremendous -- I think we're going to have tremendous Hispanic-Latino support on Tuesday, tremendous. I think it's going to be tremendous.We have one of those guys from -- from the Hillary Clinton campaign.How much are you being paid, $1,500? All right. Take him out.When we win the election on Tuesday, you will finally have a government on your side fighting for your community and protecting your family.By the way, folks, while we're at it, great...... very much.Thank you.Nobody said it was going to be easy for us...I want to thank the Secret Service. These guys are fantastic.They don't get enough credit. They don't get enough credit. They're amazing people.So let's get back to repealing the defense sequester. Right now it doesn't sound that exciting, but it's very important because we're going to rebuild our badly depleted military.That means brand new modern aircraft for naval air station, and you know what I'm talking -- Fallon, who's Fallon? Any?Not far from here, the naval air station. We have aircraft that's 18 and 20 years old. We have aircraft much older than that. We can't even buy parts to some of our aircraft. They're so old, they don't make the parts anymore.I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients.Now see those Medal of Honor recipients, when they saw that scene over there, they would have brushed off the Secret Service and they would have jumped in.They're incredible people, but we have now many, many more coming also to endorse the whole -- the whole campaign. It's been a beautiful thing.Hillary Clinton brought death -- I love you, too -- and disaster.And I want to thank all of these people, wow! You were amazing. Thank you, fellas.I saw what you are doing. That's a tough group of people right here. Thank you.Thank you. It's really great. I saw that. That was pretty amazing. Nobody messes with our people, right? Nobody.She brought death and disaster to Iraq, and Syria and Libya, and she empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS across the world. She created a vacuum and ISIS was formed. Now she is saying she's going to get rid of it. She has no chance of getting rid of ISIS.We are going to get -- we get rid of it fast. And when we go in to do something, we don't announce it four months before we do it like Mosul. We don't announce that we're going into Mosul to get the leaders who leave about two minutes after they hear the first announcement.Now we're going to do things right, folks.Hillary and her failed establishment have spent $6 trillion on wars in the Middle East, and now the Middle East is in worse shape than it's ever been by a factor of 10. They have dragged us into foreign wars that make us less safe. They shipped our jobs and wealth to other countries, and they've left our borders wide open at home.We send our troops to foreign countries to defend their borders, but our politicians refuse to defend our borders. Figure that one out.That will change on November 8th.A Trump administration will never ever put the interest of a foreign country before the interest of our country.From now on, it's going to be America First.To all Americans I say it's time for change, it's time for real leadership. We'll have real leadership.Just in finishing up, I want you to think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of the Trump administration. We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan...... and she is going to raise your taxes substantially. We will eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation.We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order.We will protect religious liberty -- have to do it.Rebuild our military, and we are going to take care for once and for all of our great, great veterans...... for once and for all. They've been treated very badly.We will provide school choice and put an end to common core. We're bringing education local...... and support the great men and women of law enforcement.Great people, amazing people.We're going to save our second amendment, which is under siege...... so important. We have the NRA total endorsement, earliest endorsement they have ever given, and appoint justices to the Supreme Court of the United States who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.It's time to cut our ties with the failed politicians of the past. Hillary Clinton is the candidate of yesterday.Folks, she's been doing this for 30 years and it's only bad. We are the movement of the future.We're fighting for every parent who lost their child to drugs and crime and gang -- right, right? And gang violence, so much gang violence.We're fighting for every community whose jobs and dreams have been ripped out and shipped to other countries. No more, no more, no more. And we're fighting for every American who believes government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.... you've been waiting for your entire life. Amazing.You're going to remember this day and you're going to remember this evening, and you're going to remember the vote that you cast whether you've casted or whether you will be casting it, and you're going to say it was the single greatest vote you ever have cast because that's when your country started winning again.We're going to win with trade. We're going to win on the border. We're going to win the war on drugs. We're going to knock the hell out of ISIS.We have no choice.We're going to win so much you're going to get tired of winning, you're going to say, you know, this guy is winning too much because you're not used to winning because we never win. We don't win with war, we don't win with trade, we don't win on the borders. You're going to win so much you're going to love it.Get out and vote. Get out and vote, because together we will make America wealthy again.We will make America strong again.We will make America safe again.And we will make America great again.God bless you. Thank you everybody. God bless you. Thank you, and thank you very much.In two days, we are going in the great state of Michigan, and we are going to win back The White House.We will stop the jobs from leaving your state. We're going to stop the jobs from going to Mexico and China and all over the world.We will make Michigan into the manufacturing hub of the world once again, and no politician will do that. They don't have a clue.I've been fighting for the car industry for years. I was honored five years ago, Man of the Year in Michigan that was a great honor for me. And during my speech, all I talked about is what Mexico and these other countries are doing to us. And especially, what they're doing to Michigan. That's all I talked about.And I was criticized, they said, Donald, speak about something else. I said, no, what's happening is horrible. What's happening is terrible. One of the main reasons I ran for president is to stop it and these politician will never do -- they'll never do anything about it.I want to share -- they'll never do it, folks. We're going to bring our jobs back and no more are going to be leaving. They're going to be consequences if they leave.I want to share a special message with my many friends in the unions all across the state. And the unions love me. And the nonunions love me too, I will tell you. As well as the Democratic voters here and across our country.The economic policies of Bill and Hillary Clinton have bled Michigan dry. Almost more than any other place. They rake in hundreds of millions of dollars of special interest who specialize in shipping your jobs to other countries.The Clintons gave us NAFTA, think of it. The worst trade deal ever signed by any country ever. China's entry into the World Trade Organization, the job killing deal with South Korea, another beauty that was a disaster, and Hillary now wants the Transpacific Partnership. She calls it the "gold standard."Hillary Clinton's policies have devastated your automobile industry all to the benefit of special interest. We will put a stop to all of that on November 8th, get out and vote, Michigan.You know, I don't know if you've been seeing what's happening over the last week or so, but they are going well, the very dishonest media, the world's most dishonest people.Today, I was watching --They're bad people -- they're bad people and they're dishonest people. They don't tell the truth. They don't write the truth.But I will say this. So, I was watching the polls, we're leading in Ohio. We're leading in Iowa. We're leading in New Hampshire. Just out --We're leading, I believe, in North Carolina. I think we're going to win it. I think we're doing very, very well great in the state of Pennsylvania. Watch what happens there. Watch what happens there.We're leading in Florida. We're leading -- a lot of polls and they're getting a little concerned this wasn't the way it was supposed to be.But then I said, you know, I'm hearing good things about Michigan. I've been here numerous times. And then a poll came out today, and it showed we were even in Michigan. That's not so great being even, right? But we're even, and I said how could I not lose -- I mean, how is it possible? I got to win Michigan.I'm the about one person in all fairness -- now you know they are worried because, now, Hillary is going to come out tomorrow and she's going to come out again. I told her -- you know what I told her via television, stop, you're wasting your time. The people are too smart. Too smart. They're too smart.But she just announced an extra visit to Michigan. You know how many people she'll have, like, half of the front row. Because, without Jay-Z and Beyonce and all of these people --And by the way, my language is much, much cleaner as you know than Jay-Z and Beyonce. Boy --Did you hear -- well -- I mean, honestly, did you hear that the other night? And so many people were insulted they left. Because she can't draw a crowd so she gets stars. But they were so insulted -- you know, they're political people, they went in to hear a political something and they hear the worst words, the worst language ever, so they mostly left. By the time Hillary was left to speak there was practically nobody there. But that's OK. That's OK.See, and we do this, all of these thousands. And by the way -- by the way -- there are thousands and thousands of people outside trying to get in. Thousands.You've got thousands. The cars are lined up three miles down the road. It's crazy.And you know that beauty of this crowd, it's without a guitar. There's no guitar, there's no pianos. You know what it is -- it's making America great again. That's what the important thing is.That's what it is. Because the other stuff, frankly, is demeaning to what we all represent, it's demeaning.Real change begins immediately by repealing and replacing Obamacare.It's just been announced that the residents of Michigan are going to experience a massive double digit premium hike. And I know what the number is. I'm not going to tell you because you're having a good time. I don't to ruin your evening. It's not good but it's not going to matter.Because, if you go out and if you vote for us, not for me, you're going to vote for us, we're going to terminate Obamacare so you're not going to have to worry about what it is.In the great state of Arizona, that I just left, premiums are going up more than 116 percent. You're going to have the same stuff. Premiums are surging. Companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, and deductibles are going through the roof.Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive than it already is. Unaffordable.I'm asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save healthcare for every family in Michigan and our country.Real change, also means restoring honesty to government. Let's start by getting rid of Clinton.Hillary Clinton --Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States. The investigations into her crimes will go on for a long, long time. The rank and file's special agents at the FBI won't let her get away with her terrible crimes, including the deletion of 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena. They forget about all of this.Right now, she's being protected by a rigged system, it's a totally rigged system. I've been saying it for a long time. You can't review 650,000 new emails in eight days. You can't do it folks.Hillary Clinton is guilty. She knows it. The FBI knows it. The people know it. And now, it's up to the American people to deliver justice at the ballot box on November 8th.It's unbelievable. Unbelievable what she gets away with.You know, you have General Cartwright, James Cartwright, a great general, highly respected, four stars, last week for doing practically nothing. He's going to get up to five years in jail. This is a sitting four-star general, James Cartwright. He could get as much as five years for doing nothing by comparison.General Petraeus, his life was destroyed. Destroyed. For doing nothing by comparison. It is a rigged system.And be careful with the voting, be careful with everything. You watch everything, folks, because we're going to win. We don't want it taken away from us. We don't want it taken away.We don't want it taken away.Just watch Obama's statements from eight years ago, and what he said about Chicago and the rigged system in Chicago. Take a look at what he said about the rigged system in Chicago. The same system that's protecting Hillary Clinton is the rigged system that stolen your jobs and shipped our wealth -- all of us, our wealth, overseas and to Mexico.So one-way highway into these countries, nothing comes back. We get drugs, we get unemployment, we get poverty. They get jobs, they get everything.One way -- it's one way, it's going to be a two-way highway -- maybe it's going to be a one-way for a little we're going to wake up. It'll be one- way back into our country.He's campaigning for Hillary Clinton. He ought to be back in the office working on jobs, working on defeating ISIS, working on our borders, working on building up our military. This guy, all he wants to do is campaign. And you know why? You know why? Because she can't campaign for herself. Let's face it.She has no talent. She's got no ability. She's got bad instincts, according to Podesta. How about the WikiLeaks? Hillary has bad instincts. Hillary has bad instincts, right. And how about Bernie Sanders? He says she has bad judgment. So, bad instincts, bad judgment. She's gonna be your president? I don't think so.Just look at how she's botched her emails, OK? Now multiply that out toward running our country. I don't think that's the way we wanna be.Wow.Florida's my second home, a state I love so much. And by the way, Hillary, once this is over, she'll never come back to Florida.She's got nothing to do with Florida. I'm here with the houses and the buildings and thousands and thousands of employees who we love. She's got nothing to do with this place. She doesn't know Florida, that I can tell you.But I am really thrilled to be here. This is the last day of our campaign. Who would have believed this? Who would have believed it?It's been some campaign, too. It's been some campaign. They say it's the single greatest movement, politically speaking, in the history of this country. Can you believe that? Can you believe it?That's quite an honor. And they say we'll get a tremendous amount of credit, win or lose. I said no, no, no, I don't want any credit if we lose. I'm not looking for credit. I'm not looking for credit. I'm looking to make America great again, not credit.This election will decide whether we are ruled by a corrupt political class. You've been watching what's going -- folks, the system is rigged. It's rigged, OK? The system is rigged. At least we know it and people in this country, I think because of us, have never known it so obviously as they do now. The system is totally rigged.Hillary Clinton should not even be allowed to run for the presidency of the United States.She shouldn't be allowed to run. It's disgraceful. What's happening -- what's happening is a disgrace and our country is a laughingstock all over the world. With what's happening with our justice, our country is a laughingstock. All over the world, they're laughing. If we win -- well, you know what you can do? Go out and vote tomorrow. That's what you can do. I'll tell you. That's the only way.Yesterday they said I set a record. I had crowds like -- massive crowds. Thank you. Thank you.But yesterday we set a record. We went to seven different states. You ought to see these crowds. In Michigan -- which I think we're going to win Michigan by the way.We're gonna win Michigan.You know what we're gonna win? We're gonna win Minnesota. We're gonna win Minnesota.We're leading big in Ohio. We're leading in Iowa. We're leading in New Hampshire, where I'm going in a little while.We're leading in North Carolina.We're doing very, very well in Pennsylvania. Very well. You watch what's gonna happen in Pennsylvania. The miners are gonna come out, the workers are gonna come out, the steel workers who lost their jobs are coming out.By the way, lots of people surrounding Philadelphia are going to come out of there voting, because they want to vote. And you know who's gonna come out? The women are going to come out. You watch.The women -- the women are going to come out big.It's all a phony deal. They're telling you a lot of phony stuff. They are so worried. You had to see them on television this morning. Oh, you know they get a note handed over that we're leading in, let's say, New Hampshire -- which we are -- they get a note. Very happy and everything, "Oh, oh, oh. Mr. Trump is leading in New Hampshire." You can see they're thrilled. They're totally thrilled. They are thrilled.By the way I just want to introduce -- I'm a big fan of Billy Graham. We all are. Who isn't right? Who isn't? Who isn't?I'm also a big fan -- and he's been so incredible to me -- of Franklin Graham. He's a great guy. He's keeping it going.And Billy Graham's granddaughter was here and spoke incredibly I hear, I hear.But Cissie Graham Lynch is here someplace. Where's Cissie? Where is she?You were so great. Everybody's saying, if you can do as well as Cissie, you've done a good job. So thank you.That is an amazing -- I will tell you, my father used to take me, they called it the Crusades. And that was the Crusades. It was a beautiful thing. But Billy Graham was amazing.I think -- is he 98 today? 98 years old, Billy Graham.Thank you, Cissie. Really great. Say hello to your family.Billy Graham is 98 years old. This is an amazing -- truly one of the great, great man.Our failed political establishment has delivered nothing but poverty at home and disaster overseas. They get rich making America poor.It's time to reject a media and political elite that's bled our country dry.It's finally time for us to fight for America. We're going to fight for America.I'm not a politician. My only special interest is you.You know, I built a great company -- one of the great companies -- one of the great real estate companies. Some of the most incredible assets in the world, including Doral right down the road and lots of other things. Buildings on the beach with the Dezer family and with related. We've had a tremendous career.But -- and I was on the other side. You know my whole life I was always watching, watching. I was on the other side.It's very nice and very comfortable to be on the other side. But I love this country.And this country was going bad. It was going bad. So I went, like, from, sort of, an ultimate insider -- I mean, people that absolutely -- senators, they'd call, "Don, how are you?" You know, they'd come over every year, I'd give them a check for some crazy thing they're doing. And they'd say, "Donald, how are you? How are you?"The day I announced it was like, "Donald who? We don't know -- we don't know Donald Trump."You have to see these guys. Oh, I know I'm better than anybody. It was time, it was time. I had to join the other side, which is you. We are going to do things so special.Our country was in trouble, our country was in trouble, $20 trillion in debt, making deals like the deal with Iran where we give them $150 billion.Where we give them $1.7 billion in cash. You know what that is? That'd fill up this side of the arena. Nobody ever even heard of things like this. When you look at our military is allowed to deplete -- our military's very depleted. We can't do that, this is among the times where we most need a tremendous and powerful and smart military. We need smart people.And Obamacare is a disaster, everything's wrong.Our country doesn't win anymore. We're going to start winning again, OK?Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.And they're far greater than what you've been told. You've been told numbers because they didn't wanna do it before the election. I worked very hard to force those numbers out. It's gonna have a great impact on -- you know, my poll numbers are going through the roof. You know why? I really believe a big part of it is Obamacare because we're gonna repeal it and replace it.In the great state of Arizona, premiums are going up more than 116 percent. Over 90 percent of the counties in Florida are losing Obamacare and they're losing the insurers that put Obamacare there. But you know what? We're gonna make it 100 percent of the counties because we're gonna terminate Obamacare and it's not going to make a difference.We'll be terminating Obamacare and we'll be replacing it with so many different options, but you'll have great health care at a fraction -- a fraction of the cost and it'll be great.With Obamacare, premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting and deductibles are going through the roof. Yet, Crooked Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. Gonna go way up, gonna go way up, Obamacare is going much higher.Nobody in this room can believe what's going on in Washington. Nobody in this room can believe what's going on with the FBI and what's going on with the Department of Justice, nobody, nobody can.Nobody can believe it. I'm asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Florida and in our great country.Real change also means restoring honesty to our government. Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States. She threatened national security, she sold her office to the highest bidder and then to cover her tracks, she deleted at least 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena.Hillary Clinton is being protected by a totally rigged system. And now, it's up to the American people to deliver justice at the ballot box tomorrow, that's what's gonna happen.That's what's gonna happen.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and take back our country and to take it back swiftly from the special interests who I know so well. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words we are all about to say. When we win tomorrow, we are going to drain the swamp.You know, the other day, you read where Hillary Clinton called entertainers because she can't get anybody -- nobody wants to go. I mean, look, I don't know. I see she's doing fine, I'm doing fine in the polls and all that stuff. I don't know how. Nobody goes to her rallies. So she got Jay-Z and Beyonce and the language they used was so bad. The language.The language was so bad. And as they were singing, singing right?But the crooked media, those people back there, the most dishonest people.The crooked media does nothing, they don't explain it. They don't explain it. And isn't it amazing that when Jay-Z and Beyonce use the filthy language that they use in the songs, using words that if I ever said those words, it would be the reinstitution of the electric chair, right?It's true. It's true. They use these words and then she comes on and hugs them like everything's right. And yet with me, "He's very lewd." That's a new word, you know, lewd. I mean, I've never seen anything like it in my life. She is such a phony. She is such a phony.I will say this, I don't think that Billy Graham ever spoke like this. Do we agree? This is different than a Billy Graham crusade. But you know what, we're all looking for the same thing. We're looking for greatness for our country, we're looking for religious liberty -- looking for religious liberty.But we are somewhat different personalities. Look at this mask. Look at this mask. Wow. That's beautiful. Look at that. Looks just like me.Nice head of hair, I'll say that.Thank you. Thank you. Is there any place more fun to be than a Trump rally?At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs.Florida has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary.America has lost, hard to believe this, 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster. We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of our world.Look, no country has ever lost jobs like us. They're sucked out of our country, the companies leave, they fire everybody, they go to Mexico and many other countries. It never happened before like this. And we're going to stop it day one. It's so easy to stop. It's so easy.So easy to stop. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Florida. Promise.If a company wants to fire their workers, leave Florida and move to another country like Mexico as an example, and then ship their products back into the United States through what will become an unbelievably strong border, I will tell you...... we will make them pay a 35 percent tax on those products.And I'll tell you what's gonna happen. I'll tell you what's gonna happen. Nobody's gonna leave because the model no longer works. You know, Ford is leaving. I was in Michigan last night. Ford is leaving. They're all leaving. That's why I'm going to win Michigan. I believe we're gonna win Michigan.Michigan they've ripped -- they have ripped cars out of there, factories out of there, plants out of there. Same thing Ohio, so many companies have gone to Mexico and other countries. And we're going to win these states by tremendous amounts because people are tired of being ripped off. That's what's happening. They're being ripped off. They're being led by politicians who frankly -- you know, I went to an Ivy League school, I was a good student, all that stuff. But some words are just like, you can't duplicate them, right? We're tired of being led by stupid people. They're stupid. They're stupid people.We will renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to China and stop the job- killing Transpacific Partnership, which will be a disaster.Hillary Clinton said it's the gold standard, and she's right. Remember she lied in the debate? She said she never said it. I said you did say it. She said -- well, it turned out she lied, she did say it. It was the gold standard. I say she was right though. It's the gold standard for the other countries, not for us. So she was actually right. She should have said that, she would have stopped a lie. She doesn't know what she's doing.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.And we are going to massively cut taxes for the middle class who I call -- who I call the forgotten people. These are the forgotten men and women. They built our country. They built our country.Hillary Clinton wants to raise taxes. Wants to raise taxes.Oh, I love those signs. Blacks for Trump. Hold that sign up.I'm telling you, Blacks for Trump. You know, one of the things they're seeing in a couple of these states like Florida, African- Americans aren't turning out and when they do there are a lot of them voting for Trump. This is very disturbing to the other side.They're not turning out because they don't care about her. She's got not a lot of inspiration. She used a term called super-predator to define black youth, right? Super-predator. And they're not turning out. They're not turning out. And then they're worried because when they do turn out, I'm getting so many more than was anticipated.I think the same is going to be true with Hispanics. You know, the Cubans gave me the award, the Bay of Pigs Association...The Bay of Pigs Association last week gave me the award, Man of the Year. The Bay of Pigs Association and it was a great honor. No, we're gonna do great with the African-Americans, we're gonna do great with the Hispanics. And the other side is starting to see it and they are not happy. They are not happy.We're gonna be one country, we're not gonna be a divided nation anymore, we're a divided nation. We are a divided nation.Thank you, proud of our country.We will also cancel billions and billions of dollars in global warming payments to the United Nations where those payments disappear.And we're gonna use all of that money to invest in the infrastructure and we could even say the environmental infrastructure of our country.And remember this, remember this. When it comes to environment because I receive many environmental awards, you know, people don't wanna talk about that, that's OK. But we need absolutely crystal clear and clean water.We need beautiful, immaculate air. And we need safety and we need safety. We give billions and billions of dollars away, you can imagine who's taking that money, you can imagine. We don't even know what happens to it. And we -- he goes, Hillary is taking it. Probably, hey, you're pretty smart, probably. Probably she gets her piece.And we will create jobs and opportunities for African-Americans and Hispanic Americans that have been failed so badly. They've been lied to, they've been cheated to by the Democratic Party. They want their vote, give us your vote, thanks a lot, see you in four years. That's what happens.We're gonna do our job. For instance, I met recently with the leaders in the Puerto Rican community, a community that's -- it's a great community, I know it well. And they're being crushed by high taxes, regulations and failed education policies of Hillary Clinton and Obama. You know where Obama is now? Not working on jobs, not working on Mosul, where they gave him four months advanced notice, our military.We are going into Mosul, four months, right? In four months, we are expecting to enter Mosul. I'm turning -- I said please, turn off the television, I can't hear. The element of surprise, folks. So then, I hear three months, yes, in three months we'll be attacking Mosul. Now, it's two months. Then it's a month. Then it's two weeks.We're preparing now, to go into Mosul, we wanna get their leaders because you know ISIS, supposedly the leaders are -- don't they realize that the first time before they finished the first sentence four months ago, those leaders have already found new places. Don't they understand that?Oh, General Douglas MacArthur, where are you, sir? Where is our General George Patton? Where are they, where is General Patton?Where is General George Patton? You know where they are? They're watching and they're spinning in their grave, they don't believe it. Wouldn't it be nice if we just shut up, did the job, had a news conference a week later and said we had great success, wouldn't that be nice, now? That's Obama, that's Obama.And you know what? Hillary, that would be four more years of Obama and we don't want it. And tell...And tell this president to stop campaigning and go back to work.I'm going to deliver jobs, safety, great education, help small businesses to thrive and grow and create amazing opportunities for the children of this country.Here in Florida, we have such an amazing, incredible Hispanic- American community from Cuba, from Puerto Rico, from Venezuela, from Haiti. I was in little Haiti the other day, great people. They are such warm, great people. By the way, warm, great people, I spent a lot of time with them. They hate the Clintons, they hate what the Clintons did to them in Haiti, they hate them.The Dominican Republic and from many other places to all of our wonderful Hispanic communities in this state, I want you to know that you will have a true friend and champion in Donald Trump. That I can tell you.Whether you vote for me or not, I'm with you. I will never ever let you down.We will become a rich nation once again, but to be a rich nation, we must also a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in the inflow of Syrian refugees into our country, 550 percent.Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your schools and through out your communities. When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.And you know what folks, all of us I am speaking for all of us, we all have heart and I have to say this in front of Sissy anyway. We all have heart and we're gonna build safe zones in Syria. We're gonna get the Gulf states -- they have tremendous amounts of money, I know them well and they're gonna help. They're gonna put up all the money. We're not gonna put up money. We're gonna lead it and we'll do a great a job. But we're gonna get the Gulf states to put up the money. We owe $20 trillion and we have to rebuild our own country, it's time, it's time.But we're gonna build safe zones in Syria and we have to do that because what's happening is just a horrible thing, what's happening. But we have enough problems in our country. A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a great wall, and yes, Mexico will pay for the wall. They're gonna pay for the wall.We have to keep the massive amounts of drugs that are pouring into our country and poising our youth -- we have to keep it out. Never before has there been a drug epidemic like we have in our country, and much of it is coming through the southern border. And it's pouring in, it's pouring in and it truly is poisoning our youth and plenty of other people.We are going to keep it out and we are going to work very hard with medical professionals to take care of those people that are so badly addicted. Right?We will stop illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens and dismantle every last criminal gang and cartel threatening our cities.They're threatening our cities, they are threatening our citizens, they are not going to be here very long, folks. They're gonna be out of here.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military. We have no choice.This defense build-up will be supported by brand-new ships in Mayport and by engineers and new advanced manufacturing of the Space Coast. OK? You know the Space Coast has been like lost. New aircraft will fly from MacDill Air Force Base and Naval Air Station Pensacola.We're also going to support our friends in Cuba in their fight against oppression, the oppression of the Castro regime.Tremendous repression. We will demand political and religious freedom for the people of Cuba and stand with our friends in Venezuela in their struggle likewise for freedom we will stand.And we're always going to help the people of Haiti who have such a tremendous difficult path. But we will help them and help them rebuild. The people of Haiti, incredible people. I really enjoyed that time with them. Very importantly we'll also stand strong -- we have to stand strong with the state of Israel in their fight against Islamic terrorism.Barack Obama was the worst thing that ever happened to Israel. The worst thing.The worst thing that ever happened to Israel. Barack Obama was a disaster for Israel. And believe me, the Iran deal where we made them rich, we also gave them a direct path right to nuclear weapons. But we'll be working with Israel very closely, very, very closely.I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 -- and that number is raising -- rising very quickly. And 22 Medal of Honor recipients. Incredible people.Hillary unleashed destruction in Iraq, Syria, Libya, she empowered Iran and she unleashed ISIS onto the world. There was no ISIS when she was Secretary of State. Then they allowed the way they -- look, we should have never been in Iraq, but we were. We should have never gotten out of Iraq the way Obama and Clinton got us out. Never..A vacuum was formed and -- thank you very much. We now have ISIS in 32 countries all over the world unleashed by Obama and Hillary Clinton. But we're gonna knock them out. We have no choice. We're gonna knock them out, folks. We're gonna knock them out.That's one we have chopping off heads, drowning people in steel cages. Not since Medieval times have we seen anything like this. Not since Medieval times have we seen anything like this. And then I'm in one of the debates -- did I win the debates by the way? Did I win?They did nine online polls after the debates and all nine said I won. And she was in debate prep all the time. I was guilty, I was saying like -- they kept saying are you in debate prep? I said, yeah, I've been doing this stuff all my life. I'm supposed to be studying like -- she was in debate prep but it wasn't really.Look, for a week and a half before each debate she would close the door, go to sleep and say it was debate prep right??And then when she left those debates, she was exhausted. I'll tell you, when she left the second and third debate she was exhausted. Not what we need in our country, folks. We need a lot of energy in our country and a lot of bum-bum. We need a lot of things. We don't need Hillary.Get out and vote. Get out and -- who's already voted?That's pretty good. Wow. You've almost all voted. All right. Goodbye, everybody.Well, that's what the Democrats do to the inner cities you know. They say oh they voted, let's get out of here. I'll see you in four years. Wow, that's pretty good. All right. For the few people that haven't, that's a very impressive -- I love you too. Thank you.I love you too. Get out and vote for the few that haven't.Hillary and our failed Washington establishment have dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe and that we never win, we never win. Shipped our -- I don't think you like Hillary very much. Oh boy, what a -- what a disaster this is -- she gets in, it's a disaster. She's not gonna get in folks, I don't see it. I'll tell you, I don't see it. Not getting...They've shipped our jobs and our -- Hillary -- all over the world and left our borders wide open at home. That will all change starting actually tomorrow, actually tomorrow.Because while we don't take office until mid-January, the whole psyche will change as of tomorrow, right, this guy knows. Firemen, firemen, right, great firemen, great people, great, great people.Not easy being a fireman today, right? Oh, thank you. I see a great fireman over here. I was with the fire groups the other day, they have a new problem, nobody ever heard of this problem. You know about it, oh can I -- oh, wow, get that for me, wow.Thank you.Great, that's great, thank you. Tell you what, I was all set to put it on then I see it's about 20 years old and this sucker has been used.So we gotta change, folks, we have to -- we have to bring people together. We have such a divided country, thank you.Thank you. From now on, it's going to be America First. To all Americans, I say it is time for change, it is time for new, strong and smart leadership.Just in summing up...Thank you.Think I'm gonna be doing six of these today, can you believe that?Six, going to North Carolina, we're going to all over, we're going to New Hampshire right after. It's gonna be great. I love doing it because there's such spirit, the people -- the people of this country are so incredible.Oh, look at that, look at that, beautiful, beautiful baby, beautiful baby, good job. Good job, daddy. Wow. Oh, that's an elephant costume, that's so cute.Thank you, that's very nice, thank you.Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We are going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan. Hillary Clinton is raising your taxes. We will save and protect Social Security and Medicare. Hillary is going to cut your Social Security and cut your Medicare benefits.We will eliminate every unnecessary, job-killing regulation, they're killing our businesses, cancel every illegal Obama executive order of which there are many.In honor of the great Billy Graham, we will protect religious liberty.Rebuild our military and take great care finally of our veterans. Our veterans are not being treated properly.Provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. Bring our education local.Support the great men and women of law enforcement.Save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.This is so hard to believe.You have one day until the election. You know what that means? That means tomorrow.You have one day to make every dream you ever dreamed for your country come true.You have one magnificent chance to beat the corrupt system and deliver justice. You will deliver justice for every forgotten man, forgotten woman and forgotten child in this nation.Do not let this opportunity slip away.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.And we are fighting to bring us all together as Americans. Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God saluting one American flag.APPLAUSEThank you.I'm asking you to dream big. Because with your vote we are just one day away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life.I think and hope it will be the most important vote you will ever cast, because we don't win anymore as a country. We don't win on the borders, we don't win with trade. What China is doing to us is beyond belief. We don't win anymore.We don't win with our military. We have the greatest people in the world. But we don't beat ISIS. We don't win anymore.We will start winning again and winning like you've never seen before, tell you.We're going to win again.In fact, the people of Florida may get tired of it. You're going to say, "Oh this guy, he wins too much! We can't take it. He wins too much!" You'll send your emissary, "Please, Mr. President, the people of Florida just don't want to win this much. You're winning on trade. You're bringing back jobs. You're winning at the border. The military is unbelievable, it's too much."And I'll say, "Sorry, folks. We're going to keep on winning, " right?Together we will make American wealthy and prosperous again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless you. Go out and vote! Thank you.We should start. So they'll come in. They'll come in.First of all I want to thank you. Special, special place. It's a special place with incredible people. In one day, do you believe this? One day we are going to win the great state of North Carolina...And we are going to win back the White House.That is going to be the choice. A failed political establishment has delivered nothing but poverty, nothing but problems, nothing but losses. Nothing but losses. We don't win anymore as a country. We're going to start winning again.They get rich by making America poorer in many cases. It's time to reject the media and political elite that has bled our country dry.And these are among the most dishonest people. They don't give you the truth, folks. They don't give you the truth.They rarely give you the truth. You know it. And they know it. That's the scary part. They know it.It's time to fight for America. I'm not a politician, I can say proudly. My only special interest is you. It's you.We're going to bring back the jobs that have been stolen from you. We're going to bring back the wealth that has been taken from our country. We're going to bring back the miners and the factory workers and the steel workers. We're going to put them back to work.The economic policies of Bill and Hillary Clinton have destroyed manufacturing in your state and throughout the entire country.The corrupt Clintons gave us NAFTA. China's too horrible entry into the World Trade Organization. One of the disasters. The job-killing deal with South Korea. That was a Hillary Clinton beauty. And the Transpacific Partnership, which will be a total disaster.That Hillary Clinton said this is the gold standard. And you know what? It is the gold -- she lied. She lied during the debate. She said -- hey, by the way, who won the debate? Did we win that debate?But she lied during the debate. She lied during the debate. She said it's the gold standard. And then she said she never said it.Don't worry about coal. We're bringing back coal, sir. He's holding up a couple of...Clean coal. Clean coal. Right? We're going to do clean coal, the miners. The miners are going to be back. Not if Hillary Clinton gets in. The miners, I guess you got to start thinking about something else. But the miners are going to be back. Clean coal. Clean coal.You know, thinking about it, though. Also, people, the press doesn't talk about it. Donna Brazile gets the questions through a debate...... but then it turns out to be a number of debates.Who cares about Donna Brazile? She's turned out to be not what people thought. She gets, illegally -- illegally. She gets the questions to the debate. She then takes those questions and gives them to Crooked Hillary Clinton.Now, does Crooked Hillary report it? Does she say I shouldn't have these questions or these answers? I think they gave them the answers also, right? No, she doesn't. They doesn't.I wonder if she had -- I wonder if she had the questions in my debates. I don't think so because she didn't do that well. I don't think so. I don't think so. But the years of betrayal will end. And they will end. And they're going to end quickly. They're going to end as of the day we take office, which is going to be very, very soon.The theft of North Carolina jobs will end. You've taken in harder than most states.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.Sadly, it's just been announced that the residents of North Carolina are going to experience massive double-digit premium hikes. Ninety-five...... of the 100 North Carolina counties will only have one insurer in the Obamacare exchange next year. Lots of luck negotiating.Honestly, it's not going to matter because we're going to win and we're going to terminate it. You're going to have such great health care...... for much less money. It won't matter.By the way, doctors, they're leaving. They're quitting. I have a friend who's a doctor. He said that I have more accountants than I have nurses, it's so complicated.And deductibles are going through the roof. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double down and expand Obamacare and make it even more expensive.I'm asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare, and save health care for every family in North Carolina.Thank you. Thank you.Thank you.People are pouring in, folks. They're pouring in.Did you see last night in Michigan the crowd we had? And the crowd we had -- by the way, how about 24,000 maybe 25,000 right next to Fort Brag. You saw that the other night.And we went to Minnesota. Minnesota's been treated very, very badly. We went to Minnesota where we're doing very well. Everyone said why Minnesota? That doesn't go Republican. It's going Republican this day, I'll tell you. Minnesota. Great place.I hear.Then we're winning plenty of other places. So we have to go. The big key, you have to go. You don't win a rigged system, folks. We're in a rigged system. You got to go. You got to vote. Got to make sure that vote gets registered.Thank you. Thank you. Wow. Great, great spirit.I have a job right next to -- we have a beautiful, beautiful property right next to -- right near Charlotte. You know about it, folks? It's great right? Some of the people. But it's an amazing place. It's an amazing place to work and to live, and we love it.Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States.... she needed 33,000...You know James Cartwright...... life was destroyed. And here she is. She's running for president. She's done 25 times worse than anybody's ever dreamt.It's a rigged system. It is a rigged, rigged system.So dishonest. There they are. There they are. My group. Women for Trump.Women for Trump.They've been following me, these ladies, for a long time. How are we doing? Are we doing well?Great people. Women for Trump.And now it's up to the American people to deliver the justice that we deserve at the ballot box tomorrow. At the ballot box. We're going to win.I think it's a great way of showing what we have to show in light of what's going on with justice in this country. I really do. I think it's a great way. You show it tomorrow. We show it tomorrow.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take our country back from the special interests.And folks, I was on the other side for a long time. It's a very good place to be. But I love the country. I love this country. I've really gotten to love the people of this country because I have been everywhere. We have the greatest people on earth. But I love this country.And I couldn't watch it when they made the Iran deal. They gave them $150 billion, a terrorist state.A state that was ready to collapse until we made them rich and powerful. We gave them a path to nuclear weapons. They were ready to collapse. We gave them, remember, $400 billion, right? We gave them $400 million. Then we found out that was -- it wasn't $400 million. It was $1.7 billion in cash. In cash. Do you know what $1.7 billion in cash is? You could take that whole side of the arena and you wouldn't have enough room. How stupid are we to allow this to happen? Our leaders are incompetent. President Obama is campaigning today with Hillary Clinton because she can't campaign.And I don't think it's going to work. And she's not getting any crowds. So she gets Beyonce and Jay-Z. I like them.I like them.And you know what they do? I get bigger crowds than they do.It's true. I get far bigger crowds.Look at this place. I mean, look at the crowds we had in Michigan.By the way, Michigan is in play. It hasn't been in play for Republicans for 30 something years. Michigan is in play because they're tired of watching their car factories be taken out. They're tired of losing their jobs to Mexico.No, we're going to have some -- tomorrow's going to be a very historic day. I really believe that. I think it's going to show -- I think it's going to be a Brexit plus, plus, plus. Does that make sense?Plus, plus, plus.It will be amazing. It will be amazing.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words we're all about to say. This is a phrase, I told you. I didn't like it. I thought it was hokie. But it's not hokie. It's called "drain the swamp."We're going to go to Washington. We're going to drain the swamp. Can't believe it.I told the story. I hated that expression. I said no way I'm going to say that, no way. That's so hokie. And I said it. The place went crazy.Then I said it to another place. It went crazier. Then I said it with more confidence because you know confidence is -- and it went wild. Now I love the expression. I think it was genius.Drain the swamp. Drain the swamp.Is there any place better to be than a Trump rally? Are we having fun?Are we having fun? No? And I don't have a guitar. And I don't have a piano. All we have is great concepts for our country, which is the most important thing. Because frankly, when people get on stage, and they're entertainers, and they entertain in order to get people to fill up a room for Hillary Clinton.And by the way, they use the dirtiest language the other night. And it was -- many of the people left. You know they're political people. They heard words they've never heard before. They left.So the place was half empty by the time -- actually, it never got full, even with them. Then it was pretty much empty midway through. And then most of the people just left. And when Hillary got up there was practically -- she might as well just have started with a few people. It would've been easier.But you know she hears those words. I won't use the words. I won't even address the words. Because if I do the crooked media will say "did you hear what Donald Trump said today?"But honestly -- yes.Those words were disgusting. If I ever said those words that Jay-Z said or that Beyonce said the other night, you know what would happen to me? The reinstitution of the electric chair.It would be -- how about if I got the answers to the debate? Or if I got the questions? Supposing instead of Hillary getting the questions to the debate, which is cheating. She's a cheat. She is a cheat. She never reported it. She is a cheat.So supposing instead of her -- supposing somebody gave Donald Trump the questions to the debate. Headlines all over the world. He must withdraw from the race. You don't even hear anything about Crooked Hillary. She got the questions.To me that's such a big difference. Some people say, my people, oh don't mention that, it's just -- I say to me it's a big deal.It's a big deal. But it's not a big deal for the dishonest media to say. They don't want to report it. But just think about it, supposing it was us.At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. Bring them back to America.And by the way, you have a great governor. Support your governor. He's a great guy.North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and his lovely wife, Hillary.Well think of it. Think of it. Think of the numbers of jobs.Here's the one that gets me the most. Two things get me the most. Two things that just don't seem real. Because we're going to take care of our veterans, right? Like big league. Because our veterans are great.But two statistics I can't believe. Twenty-two suicides a day for our veterans.Think of it. You wouldn't think that's possible. Because they're treated so badly. They wait on line for six, seven, eight days for simple procedure that could solve their problem or for a prescription.But two numbers I don't -- it just doesn't make sense. Twenty- two suicides a day for our veterans. OK? It doesn't make sense.And here's another one. America has lost 70,000 factories. Now I thought they meant 700 or 7,000 maybe. It's 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary Clinton-backed disaster.Think of it though.Think of what 70,000 factories is.So those are the two numbers. They just don't seem to be real. Sad numbers. Sad numbers. Especially the vets, to be honest with you.We're living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of our world. There's never been anything happened to a country like has been happening to the United States. Our jobs are fleeing. Our companies are being taken. And leaving. And leaving.A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America. And we will stop the jobs from leaving North Carolina. Believe me.If a company wants to fire their workers and leave, as an example North Carolina, and move to another country, and then ship their products back into the United States through what will be a very strong border, by the way.We will make them pay a 35 percent tax on every product that they ship back here.And here's what's going to happen. They're not going to leave. They're not going to leave.Substantially.So one of the highest taxes in the world, she wants to raise your taxes. Same old story.We will unleash the power of American energy including shale, oil, natural gas and clean coal. Our plan will end the EPA intrusion into your family farms, and stop double taxation of a family farm at that.We will cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations. Billions and billions of dollars. And we have no idea what they do with that money. I actually have a pretty good idea. You're not going to like it. And use that -- we're going to use that money to rebuild the infrastructure of our country.And we will rebuild our inner cities. The African-American community, the Hispanic community...... have had such lies told to them. They live -- many, many people living in the inner cities of our country, they're getting worse and worse. The crime is unbelievable. You can't walk to the store and get a loaf of bread. Often you get shot.Chicago. Thousands and thousands of shootings since Jan. 1. You read it. The murder rate of the United States is the highest it's been in 45 years. The dishonest media doesn't tell you that stuff because they want you to like Obama. They want you to think Obama is doing a good job. And he's not.And he's not.We're going to fix it. We're going to bring back jobs. We're going to bring back safety. And we're going to get really good education going. There's tremendous potential, folks, in the inner cities, believe me, tremendous potential.We will become a rich nation again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees flowing into our country.Unbelievable. It's unbelievable.Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities. And you don't even know where they're going. Your government doesn't even know where they're going.When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program...... and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.Have no choice.We have no choice.We have no choice.But we're going to work because we all have hearts and it's a big problem, caused to a large extent by Obama and Hillary Clinton.The migration, caused to a large extent -- ISIS was caused by them. They left a big vacuum. There was no ISIS when she first served as secretary. There was no ISIS. She created it.Now she stands at the debate, "I will fight ISIS." She's got no chance. She's going to fight nobody. She wants to go home and go to sleep.Unbelievable. She's going to fight ISIS.You know it's one thing like when you buy a company and it's got some debt. We have $20 trillion in debt. But the country's a mess. The roads are bad. The bridges are bad. The schools are bad. The hospitals are bad. The tunnels are bad. Everything's bad. The military needs massive amounts of money.So we have all this horrible debt. It's one thing if we had it and everything's in tippy top shape. I like to say. You know I like the properties. Give me them. I want them. Give me them. But we have them and they're a mess. And we have $20 trillion, which is far too much.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States.And yes, we will build a great wall and Mexico will pay for the wall 100 percent.One hundred percent.Mexico will pay. If you look at the incredible -- if you look at the incredible deficits we have with Mexico, it's unbelievable. What we have, the cost of that wall is peanuts, is peanuts compared to the numbers you're talking about on trade with Mexico.And the numbers with China? Trade deficit? I mean we will have a trade deficit with China of close to $500 billion this year. We are going to lose in worldwide trade of goods, we're going to lose worldwide close to $800 billion. What are we doing?You really ask, who is negotiating these deals? Where do these people come? You know where they come from? They're political hacks.You're dealing with the smartest people in the world. You have Chinese people, every -- you have from Japan, you have from all these other countries. They put their smartest and the best. We put political hacks that don't know what they're doing.So we have an -- and we have the greatest in the world. We have the greatest business people. We have the greatest negotiators. We don't use them. We don't use them. We use political people. Some of them got their job because they give campaign contributions.We're going to get it straightened out, folks, starting tomorrow. Go vote. Go vote.Right?... My women.Hillary supports totally open borders. There goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered violently by an illegal immigrant deported at least five times. We will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities.We will stop illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens and dismantle every last criminal gang and cartel threatening our citizens.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton Defense sequester, and rebuild our badly depleted military.There have been few times in our history where we've needed it more, few times. North Carolina will be at the very center of this effort with brand new advanced fighters flying from Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.Beautiful. Beautiful. Beautiful, beautiful new fighters from Seymour Johnson.And we're going to have more battalions. You know the Marines are way, way off in terms of numbers. You know that. I know. Has there ever been? Yes, there have been. But rarely do we have times when we need this strong presence like now. The world hates us. The world hates us.So we're going to increase -- thank you. We're going to increase Marine battalions at Camp Lejeune. I've been to Camp Lejeune....They make major new investments. Where I was the other night, right next to it. I guess like 25,000 or 27,000 people at Fort Bragg.Great people. All soldiers are tough. A couple of them shook my hand. It was like oy, whoa. Take it easy, fellas. They are tough cookies. They are strong. They don't know how strong they are. These are great people.And new military technologies will be researched and developed right here at the Research Triangle. Right here.I'm honored to have the endorsements of more than 200 top admirals and generals, and 22 Medal of Honor recipients. And every day those numbers go up big league. Big league.And I asked some of the generals and admirals the other night by Fort Bragg. I asked them. I said fellas, let me ask you a question. They want to take over Mosul. Am I getting something wrong? Whatever happened to the element of surprise for us?I'm talking to admirals now and generals. That's what they do. I do other things. But you know it's called like common sense.You got to say we've made a lot of right calls. I said why is it that four months away from going into Mosul they're announcing "we are going into Mosul?" We're going into Mosul because we want to get the leaders of ISIS and they're staying in Mosul. And then three months they're saying "we are going in, in three months to Mosul." And then we're going in, in two months.And every time I hear, I put my hands, I go like this. I don't want to hear this, please. And as you know, they've been met with tremendous resistance, much more than they would've been.And I guarantee you this. I can't say it with certainty, only about 99.9 percent, OK? I can't say -- nothing's 100 percent. Even our victory isn't 100 percent. But it's starting to look pretty close, isn't it?Those numbers. Those numbers.Oh, these guys are unhappy. Look at them. They're not happy. They are unhappy campers. Starting to look good.Starting to look good.But wouldn't it be nice if instead of announcing four months ago and there months ago. Then they have last -- two weeks ago they go next week we're getting ready to raid.The leaders all left. They're gone. And the other people are putting up much more of a fight. Horrible. They're using human shields. It's a horrible situation. I mean it's hell. It's hell.And now the Middle East is in worse shape by far than it's ever been. We have the Great Migration, the whole thing. They've dragged -- thank you.I don't even want to look. I'll get myself. I don't want to look.They'll make it -- I won't even say I love you too because they're going to make it a major headline if I said that. World's most dishonest people. The world's really dishonest people.They dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe, shipped our jobs and wealth all over the world and left our borders wide open at home. You ever notice we send these incredible troops, so much death, so much injury, in order to create a border for a country that most people have never even heard of. And yet we don't protect our own borders. Isn't it an incredible thing?That will change starting tomorrow.Because from now on it's going to be America First, America First.So just in summing up, to all Americans I say it's time for a real leadership and time for change. We have to have change.Can you imagine having Hillary for four years?I'm being serious about that. I wouldn't want to watch the news every night.I mean look at what she's done with the emails as an example. I mean did you ever see a mess like this? Did you ever see -- of course the FBI -- the director was obviously under tremendous pressure. So they went through 650,000 emails in eight days. Right.So sad what's going on. And she still deleted them after getting a subpoena from Congress. I mean that's a crime. What happened? That's a crime. You don't even need the new stuff. She shouldn't be allowed to run.Shouldn't be allowed to run.Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.We're going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan.And Hillary is going to raise your taxes substantially.We're going to save and protect your Social Security and Medicare.And Hillary is going to cut your Social Security and really injure Medicare. That's what's going to happen.We will eliminate every unnecessary, job-killing regulation. We'll cancel every illegal Obama executive order.By the way, a man that loves this state. It's his birthday today. Billy Graham, 98.The father of Franklin. Billy Graham. What a great one, right? Ninety-eight years old. He is a fantastic man. Franklin's a fantastic man. And it's so wonderful to have support of people like that.... rebuild our military and take care of our great veterans. We're going to take care of our veterans.We will provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We move our education locally.We will support the men and women -- these are great people, the men and women of law enforcement.We're going to save our Second Amendment.And appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.This sounds so good to me because I started this on June 16th of last year because I couldn't stand when I looked at what was going on with our country, I couldn't stand it. I couldn't stand it.Coming down the escalator, right, with Melania. Coming down that escalator June 16 of last year. And they were all saying -- there were all the dishonest pundits. Actually a few of them thought I had a hell of a chance if you want to know the -- the smarter ones. But they were all saying but he's not involved with -- I've been involved with politics all my life, on the other side. But I've been involved.We had 17 people -- by the way, one of the great people in here tonight, Mike Huckabee. Where is Mike Huckabee?He's such -- is he here someplace? He is here. He is so great. Mike, wherever you are, come on out because you are great. I just saw him.But we had 17 people of great talent. Ben Carson endorsed us. Mike...Mike endorsed us. Tremendous -- I mean very talented people. And one by one by one -- and they used to say -- well I remember we were down to like 13 or 14. In one state I got 49 percent. And one of these clowns said "he has not reached the 50 percent mark." I got 49 percent with like 14 people. How do you get 49 percent with 14 people? And they said he hasn't reached the 50 percent mark. They're very dishonest people.So we ended up with 17 people, right? Don't forget that's hard because nobody else ever had a field that big or that violent, or that violent.And we have a couple that didn't endorse and that's too bad. You know they signed a pledge. They didn't honor it. But...But -- no. But for the most part...No. For the most part they were very honorable. But it was rough. They said it was the roughest primary every. I would say this is the roughest election.You know the NFL ratings are way down. You know why? Because everyone's watching this. It's actually tougher. It's actually tougher.Everyone's watching. The NFL ratings are way down. A lot of people say it's because of this.So you had 17 people. You've came down -- but we've got -- and this is a tribute to everybody in this room. We got the highest number of voters in the history of the Republican primary system.So well done.That's a long time. You know, starting with Honest Abe Lincoln, right. That's a long time. I got more than Honest Abe. That's really the only thing I did better than Honest Abe. Honest Abe was pretty -- he was pretty good.So here's the beauty. You have one day until the election. And it's not even one day. It's a half a day. To make every dream you've ever dreamed for your country and for your family to come true. You have one magnificent chance. And honestly, in four years it's over, folks.There has never been a movement like this. Even these dishonest people in the media say there has never -- Bill O'Reilly. He said it's the single greatest political phenomena that he's witnessed in his life. That's a pretty good statement.But others have said it. Others have said it. Others have said it. And it's not going to happen again. It won't be able to happen again. Four years it'll never happen. So you got to get out there and you got to vote. Got to get out.Somebody said what you've done has never been done before. It doesn't matter if you win or lose. I said believe me, it matters. No, they said that. It'll be down in the history books. I said you know what? You may be right about that.But if we don't win I will consider this the single greatest waste of time, energy. Wow do I -- you need energy for this. The single greatest waste of time, energy and money.I have over $100 million. That's a lot of money that I don't take in from the special interests because I don't need it. That's nice.And we have the biggest Internet -- you know the small donors? The small donors are giving us money at record clips. I think we had $82 million and then we had close to $100 million. And it comes in. And I think the average was like $61 each. I love those people. Those are people that love this country.And usually that's for the Democrats. You know in all fairness, that's usually for the Democrats to do that. But we're beating everybody. Nobody's seen anything like what we're doing.So we don't want to blow it. We don't want to waste it. Go vote. Go vote. Because believe me, if we don't win, all of us, honestly we've all wasted our time, I'll be honest. Because nothing's going to happen.They may say good things about us as a movement. Won't mean a damn thing, folks. You got to go out. We got to vote and we got to win. Change.Change.So you have one magnificent chance to beat the corrupt system that you're witnessing today, and to deliver justice for every forgotten man and woman and child in this nation. Do not let this opportunity slip away. We're fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.And we're fighting, we're fighting to bring us all together as Americans. We're a very divided country. People don't realize we are an unbelievably divided country. We're going to come together.Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag.Just imagine.I'm asking you to dream big because with your vote we are just one day away from the change you've been waiting for, for your entire life.Because if we win tomorrow, we will be able to make America wealthy again, to make America strong again, to make America safe again, and to make America great again.God bless you, everybody.Thank you. God bless you. Thank you, North Carolina.Thank you, folks. Thank you.In one day, we are going to win the great state of Pennsylvania and we are going to take back the White House.This election will decide whether we're ruled by a corrupt political class or whether we are ruled by yourselves, the people. It is time to reject a failed political elite that has bled this country dry.To all the people of Pennsylvania, I say, we are going to put the miners and the factory workers and the steel workers back to work. We're bringing our companies back.The trade policies of Bill and Hillary Clinton have destroyed manufacturing in your state and throughout the country. I want to take this moment to share a message with all of the Democratic voters in our country, thirsting -- thirsting for change. You're tired of a government that works only for Wall Street and the special interests.You're tired of the reckless foreign policy. The crazy wars that are never won. Hillary Clinton is the last stand for the Wall Street and special interest donors and to special interests themselves. And Hillary is the face of failure -- she's the face of failure. She's the face of failed foreign policy.Real change begins -- she is indeed the face of failure. Look at what she's done with emails, look at the mess -- look at the mess, and look at the corruption. Real change begins immediately with the repealing and replacing of the disaster known as Obamacare.This is a great room. We had great victories in this room by the way.Great victories in this room.And I went to school in Pennsylvania. And my kids went to school in Pennsylvania. So, I guess we assume it's a good place to learn. Look, have you been seeing the polls by the way?Oh, boy. Oh, boy. See the dishonest people back there, the media. The totally dishonest group.We're doing fantastically well in North Carolina, I think we're leading. We -- I believe -- are leading in Florida.And now, Hillary just announced she's going to additional stops. She's going to Michigan, traditionally not really a Republican state. But you know, I've been talking, I was man of the year in Michigan a number of years ago. And I started telling and talking about your car business is being stolen from you. I've been saying it for years and years and years. And you know what? Michigan now agrees. We're leading in Michigan -- we're leading.And when I heard that Crooked Hillary is going there tonight, she had to. Nobody thought in terms of Michigan. When I heard I figured, you know what? I have nothing to do tonight, so I'll go there tonight and give it the last word. OK?So after this, I'm going to New Hampshire, and then I'm going to Michigan. Oh, we're going to have a great victory tomorrow folks, we're going to have a great victory.They have no idea -- the dishonest media has no idea. Actually, they do have an idea. They're saying, what is going on? And look at these people and look at this enthusiasm, there's nothing like it. By the way, and just I have to say, this is considered -- the history of this country. This is actually -- and you've been hearing it. This is considered the greatest movement, nobody's ever seen anything like this folks.Boy oh boy. And she can't get anybody to go to her rallies, so she gets Jay-Z.He uses the worst language I have ever heard. And by the time he's finished, what's happened? What happens, he and Beyonce right? They're finished, by that time most of the people have left. So she thinks she's getting people, by the time she speaks they're all gone anyways. She should just take a small room and talk, -- just take a small room and talk.It's just been announced that the residents of Pennsylvania are going to experience a massive double digit premium hike. So high that I won't tell you what it is, it's very high. All 67 counties in Pennsylvania, most of which I won in the primaries, right?Almost all, almost everyone of them. Are losing Obamacare insurance next year, that puts you in a bad position. But the truth is, it's not going to matter. Because we are going to repeal it and replace it -- not going to matter, don't worry about it.So you can leave here happy. Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting, and deductibles are going through the roof. Yet, Crooked Hillary Clinton wants to double down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive than it is right now.I'm asking for your vote, so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save healthcare for every family in Pennsylvania.Real change also means restoring honesty to our government.True, it's true. Don't worry, they never show the crowds folks, they never -- they show my face, boom boom -- never show the crowd. It took over a year for the FBI to review 50,000 emails and then just eight days they reviewed 650,000 emails?So now, it's up to the American people to deliver justice at the ballot box tomorrow. You've got to get out and vote.Let's swamp them. Pennsylvania, let's swamp them. You've got to get out.Our country has never, ever done anything like they're doing right now when it comes to justice. James Cartwright, four star general, two weeks ago, admitted to one mistake. And he did it on the basis of national security he said, and I can understand that. He may go to jail for up to five years. General Petraeus's life has been destroyed for doing one, one hundredth of what Hillary Clinton did.So sad, so sad. It's -- honestly it's a disgrace. And now she's allowed to run for President. And General Cartwright will end up being in jail.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and take back our country from the special interests and the donor.I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear the words from all of us. When we win tomorrow we are going to Washington, D.C. to drain the swamp.They say we're tied in Pennsylvania, I don't think so -- I don't think so. I think we're going to blow them out tomorrow in a lot of different ways, blow them out.No way. This is not the sound of a second place finisher, that I can tell you.No, they have us tied. Don't forget we were 12 points down three weeks ago. And then after the debates, all of a sudden we started going up. We started going up and it was great. And now they have us even. But I actually think we're much better than that in Pennsylvania, I do -- and so do you.Pennsylvania has lost almost 40 percent of it's manufacturing jobs since NAFTA. A deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary Clinton.America has lost 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary backed disaster.We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America. And we will stop the jobs finally from leaving Pennsylvania.And you know what's going to happen? They're not going to leave. And if they do, that's OK. The country will make a lot of money. But they're not going to leave -- they're not going to leave. Now, your politicians could have thought of that, some of them, some of them can't, for they have other problems. We will renegotiate NAFTA, one of the worst deals, probably the -- not probably -- the single worst trade deal ever made in the history of this world, it's true.We'll stand up to China, and stop the job killing Transpacific Partnership, which Hillary Clinton wants. You know, she called it the gold standard and then she lied during the debate. And she said, I never said that, I said, yes you did, you called it the gold standard. Turned out she was lying -- turned out.Of course you could look at it differently. It is the gold standard for the other side, not for the United States, for the other side it's good. How about this -- how about this? How about getting the questions for the debate?They fed her -- illegally, they fed her the questions for the debate, Donna Brazile. They fed her the questions to the debate. And she never came and...They fed her the questions to the debate. And she didn't say, I can't do this, I'm sorry, it's so unethical. Can you imagine if I was given the questions to the debate? What would have happened? The biggest story all over the -- you don't even read this. You read a little bit about Donna Brazile, but you don't read this. They gave her the questions to debates, numerous debates against Bernie Sanders.And Bernie Sanders, he is really upset, I would bet you he would wish that he didn't give her that little nod, because he made a deal with the devil, you know it. He ruined the legacy -- he really had a very important legacy going folks. He ruined his legacy when he did that. And he's got to be very embarrassed -- he's got to be very, very embarrassed.And we will massively cut taxes for the middle class, the forgotten people -- the forgotten men and women of this country, who built our country. We will massively lower taxes. It's in our plan. And I'll tell you. Hillary, you see her plan. She is going to raise taxes substantially folks.You folks can't be too happy about that I guess. We are going to unleash an energy revolution right here in Pennsylvania. We will cancel billions of dollars in global warming payments to the United Nations, billions and billions and billions.And use that money to rebuild the infrastructure of the United States.And by the way, take a look at what's happening in Florida and other places. The African-American community likes Donald Trump and they're not liking voting for Hillary Clinton very much.They're not showing up, they don't want to vote for her. The Hispanic community, the numbers are becoming great. You know the Cubans, they gave me an award, Bay of Pigs award, last week. The entire Cuban community of Miami, Bay of Pigs Association. No, but a lot of trends are very disturbing to the media.Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities. When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program and we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country.Have not choice.We have no choice.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States. And yes, we will build a great wall.100 percent correct. They will. They have -- unbelievable how they've done with our country. I was with the president of Mexico, three months ago -- terrific, it was a terrific meeting. But you know, when you have highways going into a country, it's got to be like a two-way highway. Right now, they get all the jobs, they get all the factories and plants, they get all the income, they get all the money, the taxes. We get unemployment and we get drugs, we get nothing.We get nothing. That will all change folks. It will change very, very fast. And it will be -- it will be a two lane highway, maybe a one -- maybe one lane for a little while, but one way coming here -- but just for a little while. We have to catch up, this is a lot years. A lot of years we've been abused by people who don't know what they're doing. A lot of years, we've been abused by stupid politicians, very stupid politicians.Hillary Clinton supports totally open borders. There goes your country. And your plan gives your Social Security and Medicare benefits -- you know, she wants to give them to illegal immigrants.We're going to take care of our veterans folks -- we're going to take care of our veterans.We will cancel all Federal funding to sanctuary cities.This will be a national effort. And it means a new future for Philadelphia's Navy shipyard. Right?I know it well, I went to school in Philadelphia, I know it well. It's going to be activated again, really activated. I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients, and the list is growing.Oh boy folks. We're gonna have such a different country -- you're going to be so proud of your country again.Going to be so proud.Because from now on, it's going to be America First -- America First.Is everybody going to vote tomorrow?We will rebuild our badly depleted military. And we are going to finally take care of our great veterans.Provide school choice and put an end to common core, we're bringing education local.And appoint justices to the United State Supreme Court, who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.I can't believe I'm saying this. It started on June 16th, last year, June 16th. It's a long time -- thank you, I love you too darling.It will be the greatest vote you've ever cast in your lifetime. Because together, we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And yes, we will make America great again.Thank you, everybody. Thank you. God bless you, everybody. God bless you. Get out and vote. Thank you Pennsylvania. Thank you.Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much.Didn't we?Thank you. Thank you, Karen. What a group, Mike. This is big by any standard. Do you agree? This is -- look at it.And here is the good news, there are thousands of people outside trying to get in. Do you believe what's going on?So it all began for me in New Hampshire. It's the first state we won.Remember the promise I made? We will stop those drugs from pouring in, poisoning your children, poisoning everyone else, and that we'll work very hard to get people off that addiction, it's going to happen. We're going to do it. I said I was going to do it, and we're going to do it.So I want to thank everybody in New Hampshire. Thank you.Also, my family was here. I said, come on. My children were here, and I just -- Tiffany, Jared, Ivanka.Now, we know the Pence family, very, very famous. And by the way, I just looked at the numbers, Indiana is doing very well. You have done a great job.A great job. Thank you. Thank you, Karen.Don Jr., Vanessa, Eric and Lara...... they've been such a big part. And you know, I've been reading about all these surrogates going all over for Hillary Clinton, but I had my family. I had the best surrogates of all, they were all over.They were all over, so -- so I just want to thank you.Ivanka, maybe on behalf of the family say a couple of words? Go ahead.Thank you very much.So again, go and enjoy it. Let's go have a good time. And by the way, we are going -- right after this -- to Michigan because Michigan is in play.And I may get there a little bit late, but they're waiting. We have thousands and thousands of people. The polls just came out, we're leading in Michigan.We're leading in New Hampshire.We're leading in Ohio. We're leading in Iowa. We're leading in North Carolina.I think we're doing really, really well in Pennsylvania.And I do believe we are leading in Florida...... so it's going to be amazing. It's going to be amazing. So, I want to thank everybody.And, folks, go ahead. And, Mike, I'll see you in a little while. I think Mike is going to come with me to Michigan, right?Thank you. Thank you every much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.Thank you, everybody. Thank you very much.Well, you know, we said we want to finish you off in New Hampshire because of the incredible relationship I have, but who would have expected this, right? Who would have expected this?This is some group.So, a couple of things, two people I have a lot of respect for, really like as people, incredible people. And because they're so important to the area, I thought I would give you this information. They've told me I can do it, so I will do it.Tom Brady...... great guy, great guy. Great guy, great friend of mine, great, great champion, unbelievable winner. He called today and he said, Donald, I support you, you're my friend, and I voted for you.And I want to tell you, this guy is a champ, and he's a winner, and he is a great person. So I said, so, Tom, you voted for me, you support me, am I allowed to say it tonight to this massive crowd in New Hampshire? He said, if you want to say it, you can say it, OK?Tom, that's what a champion is all about.And another person -- very close to Tom actually for a lot of reasons, you'll understand in a second, I have unbelievable respect for him, champion in every way. And I was in the plane and they handed me a letter, and it was from Coach Belichick.And he said, absolutely if you'd like. He said, but do me a favor, don't read that letter. Let me send one that's a little bit different. So I think that he was going to take all the good things out, right, like most gutless people do -- gutless -- but he's the opposite, he's a champ. So he sent me the new letter and it was much better. It was stronger.See, most people don't do that, most people do the opposite. I don't want to get involved. This guy is a true champ, so he writes, Coach Belichick, congratulations on a tremendous campaign. You have dealt with an unbelievable slanted and negative media, and have come out beautifully -- beautifully.You proved to be the ultimate competitor and fighter. Your leadership is amazing. I have always had tremendous respect for you, but the toughness and perseverance you have displayed over the past year is remarkable. Hopefully, tomorrow's election results will give the opportunity to make America great again."Best wishes for great results tomorrow. Bill Belichick.So I just want to...... I just want to -- it is funny though when he said I really want to redo the letter, I really did expect to get a little bit -- because I understand how most people work, but most people aren't the coach.So Tom Brady and Bill Belichick, I want to thank you both.And go win a good Super Bowl or whatever you want to do.Boy, what a combination. Never been a better combination. But when you know them personally, like I do, they're even better.Tomorrow we are going to win the great state of New Hampshire...We are going to deliver historic once in a lifetime change.When the people of this country from Florida to Minnesota, from New Mexico to right here in New Hampshire, step onto the voting booth, tomorrow, there is one fundamental question for you to consider -- do you want America to be ruled by the corrupt political class or do you want America to be ruled again by the people?I am asking for the votes of all Americans, Democrats, Republicans, independent, first-time voters -- and there are a lot of those first-time voters, folks.Who are so desperately in need of change.Can you imagine having Hillary Clinton for four years?Can you imagine? Hillary Clinton's only allegiance, is to herself, her donors and her special interests.My only special interest is to you, believe me, is to you.That's why I'm doing this -- that's why I'm doing this. The corrupt special interest have stolen your jobs and shipped your wealth to other countries. They betrayed the working class of this country. Tomorrow, the American working class will strike back. It's about time.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing Obamacare.It's just been announced that Americans nationwide are going to experience a massive double-digit and triple-digit premium hike. Over 90 percent of the counties in New Hampshire are losing Obamacare insurers next year, lots of luck in your negotiation. Honestly folks, not going to matter, we're going to have it terminated. We're going to have great health care at a fraction of the cost, so it's not going to matter.I want you to leave here happy tonight.Premiums are surging, companies are leaving, insurers are fleeing, doctors are quitting and deductibles are going through the roof. Yet, Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. I'm asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in New Hampshire and in our country.Real change also means restoring honesty to government. Let's start by getting rid of Clinton.That's the best.By the way, did you ever see anything like happening right now? Have we ever seen anything like this?Four-star General James Cartwright, two weeks ago, for a tiny, tiny infraction by comparison, can go to jail for up to five years and might very well. General Petraeus' life was destroyed, reputation totally destroyed for something that was a fraction of what Hillary Clinton did. What a shame, what a shame, so sad.Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States.She threatened national security, she sold her office to the highest bidder, and then to cover he tracks, she deleted 33,000 emails after receiving a congressional subpoena.That in itself disqualifies her from running from president. She shouldn't be allowed to run. She's being protected by a totally rigged system.Drain the swamp. Hillary has shown contempt for the working people of this country. Her campaign in WikiLeaks has spoken horribly about Catholics and evangelicals and so many others.They got it all down folks, WikiLeaks, WikiLeaks. And what Podesta said about her, bad instincts. He said she's got bad instincts, and Bernie said to her, said bad judgment, right? So, do we want a president with bad instincts and bad judgment?I don't think so. We're going to stand up for the Catholics and we're going to stand up for the evangelicals.WikiLeaks just released another debate question -- Hillary got another one just one hour ago. I said I have to mention it. You know, if you go to West Point or Annapolis or the Air Force Academy, and if you get the questions to a test and if you don't report yourself, they throw you out. Sad, sad.To me it's one of the bad things. A lot of my people they say, let's not talk about that, I should talk about it. Donna Brazile got the questions. Donna Brazile took those questions and gave them to Crooked Hillary, right? And Crooked Hillary didn't do anything. She took the question. And I'll tell you what, if I were Bernie Sanders, I wouldn't be too happy, and she probably did it with me, too, but did we win those debates or what?Wouldn't matter -- wouldn't matter. So she got those questions. She never turned them in, folks. Remember, you're dealing with a very dishonest person.My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take our country back from the special interest.I want the entire corrupt Washington establish to hear these words from all of us. When we win tomorrow, we are going to drain the swamp.That is something -- that is something. At the core of my contract is my plan to bring our jobs back.New Hampshire has lost one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a disaster, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary.Amazingly, America has lost -- listen to this -- 70,000 factories since China entered the World Trade Organization, another Bill and Hillary-backed disaster.We are living through the single greatest jobs theft in the history of the world -- there's never been anything like this. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving New Hampshire, believe me.We will stop those jobs. If a company wants to fire their workers, leave New Hampshire and move to another country and then ship their products back into the United States through what will soon be a very, very strong and powerful border.We will make them pay a 35 percent tax on those products. And you know what's going to happen, you know what's going to happen? They're never leaving, they're staying -- they're staying. We will renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to China and stop the job-killing Transpacific Partnership.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We will massively cut taxes for the middle class. Hillary Clinton is raising taxes very substantially.We will cancel billions in global warming payments to the United Nations, billions and billions and billions of dollars and nobody knows where it goes and nobody knows what it's used for. I know where it goes, it goes into a lot of people's pockets. That's where it goes.And we will rebuild our inner cities, and the African-American community and the Hispanic community...... will love what's going to happen because the inner cities, in so many cases, are like living in hell. Crime is rampant, horrible. You can't walk to a store without getting shot. Schools are terrible, as bad as it gets, and there are no jobs. We're going to bring back the jobs. We're going to fix the schools and make them terrific.And we're going to make the inner city safe. We're going to make them safe. And as you know, the Democrats, for longer than 100 years in many cases, unbroken chain have been in-charge of the inner cities. And you know what they want, they want your vote, then they say, see you in four years, folks. They do nothing.I will fix the inner cities. And I ask you though what do you have to lose? Believe me, we will do such a great job, what do you have to lose? And we've been doing very well. If you look down in Florida, look at those long lines. We have been doing very well with the African-American community and with the Hispanic community...... and all of the dishonest press, they're saying, what's going on here? What's going on? Among the world's most dishonest people -- look at all of them, look at all those cameras.Look at all of them, look at all of those cameras. Why don't you twirl the cameras, folks? Go ahead, twirl them. Show the crowd.Show the crowd. They don't do it. And outside you have another 10,000 who was just reported -- 10,000. These are the world's bad people, they're dishonest people. They're very, very dishonest -- not all of them. But I would say most of them, you know. You heard -- you heard the coach, he mentioned it, too. I guess, he's got his difficulties with them also. Now they're very dishonest.I will be a champion for all Americans against this unfair and corrupt system. We will become a rich nation again.Can't do it, folks -- can't do it. Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities. When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program...... and we will keep radical Islamic terrorist the hell out of our country, believe me.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States and, yes, we will build a great, great wall.And don't forget, New Hampshire, I promised you -- I promised you, when I won New Hampshire in the primary, I promised you, I said, we are going to stop the drugs from flowing in -- we're going to stop them from flowing in.We're going to stop the drugs from poisoning your children and plenty of others. We're going to build a wall. I was endorsed by so many people having to do with the borders, the Border Patrol agents, ICE all endorsed Donald Trump, such an honor for me because these are great people that want to do their job. But I promised you, that if I got this far, you were the first ones and you were the first ones that really taught me how bad the drug epidemic is.I met with your police -- who are incredible people, by the way -- and they explained...And I guess, it made a big impact on me because I love New Hampshire, I love the beauty of New Hampshire -- the trees, the winding roads, the lakes, the rivers, the whole thing, the little streams. So I meet with people and I say, what's your biggest problem, and they'd say, heroin. I'd say, heroin? It made such an impact because it just doesn't seem to work with the beauty of your area. But I said we would stop it, we will stop it 100 percent and then we are going to work on helping the people who are so seriously addicted, OK?Hillary Clinton totally supports open borders. There goes your country.Which means unlimited drugs pouring into your states, pouring in to our country. Hillary also strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco...... where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant and deported probably more than five times. We will cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities, believe meAll of it. We will stop illegal immigration, stop the drugs from pouring into our country and dismantle every last criminal gang and cartel threatening our citizens.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and re- build our badly depleted military we needed so badly now.This will be national effort. And a major part of this re- building will be the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.It's going to be a big part of it, folks, a big part. We have now the smallest Navy, by the way -- does anyone know this? The smallest Navy that we've had since World War I.We're going to build it back up. I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients, and the list goes on and on, and up and up every day.Hillary and her failed establishment have dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe and that we never win -- we never win. We fight and fight and fight. Like Mosul, we give them four months notice, we're going into Mosul. What about the element of surprise? Remember the old element of surprise. We are going to be attacking Mosul in four months. We will hit them from the rear, we will hit them from the front, we will paratroop in, we will do all sorts of things. Then three months, they say again, then two months, then one month, and a couple of weeks ago I'm hearing, we expect to be attacking Mosul next week. These are smart people.One of the reasons we're attacked is we want to get the leaders of ISIS who we feel are staying in Mosul. They left after the first mention that we're going to attack. Don't these people understand it? What a bunch of people we have.What a bunch of people. I mean, we got a president, all he wants to do is campaign for Crooked Hillary. That's all he wants to do.You know, he takes that big -- that big 747 Air Force One, those big old engines that spew the stuff, right? And he flies it all over the place, campaigning for Hillary. And then he talks about let's not affect the ozone layer. What a joke -- what a joke.And he shouldn't be campaigning, he should be out trying to get our jobs back, trying to secure our borders, building up our military, stopping our drug problem.Amazing, amazing. And Hillary can't fill a room. Look at this is called, filling a stadium, and I have no guitar and no piano, right? I mean, she gets Jay-Z and Beyonce the other night.The language, right, the language was so bad. People were insulted; they started walking out. Hillary then walks under the stage, hugs them, hugs them, hugs them, and then she says, Donald Trump uses such foul language. Give me a break.Did you hear what he was saying? And tonight she has Bruce Springsteen. What they don't say is this, so they perform actually in the case of Jay-Z, they were leaving because some of these people never heard language like that, they started to leave. So what happens, they come in, listen to the musician, which I think is demeaning to the -- it's actually demeaning to the political process.They listen -- because she can't fill a room. If she'd come her she'd have -- I'm telling you -- she'd have 100 people sitting on the first place. We're going to have -- we have 28,000 people including the people outside...And we don't have a guitar. What we do have is we all have together a great plan to make America great again. That's what we have.And also in all fairness, is there any place better than a Trump rally to be? I mean, really?There's no place better. So these politicians have shipped our jobs and our wealth all over the world and left our borders wide open at home. That will change immediately upon our victory, believe me, immediately.Got to get out and vote. Tomorrow is the day. Got to get out -- we got to get out and vote. One thing I'll say about New Hampshire, I'd never disappointed New Hampshire, but New Hampshire has never disappointed me.Remember in the primaries they said, Donald Trump, you know the phony polls, these people.They said, Donald Trump may not win New Hampshire. I said, that's surprising, I think I'm going to win -- I think I'm going to win. And then we won by 18 points...... with a lot of people. You know, we have 17 people. You know what else? Right next door in Massachusetts where they're represented...Now I know why you like Belichick so much and Tom -- Tom Brady. By the way, is there a better reference than Tom Brady and Bill Belichick who are...I don't know -- I don't think so.You know, in Massachusetts we had -- what 14 people left. They go like this, boom, boom, boom. I think we had 14 people left. We got 49 and-a-half percent of the vote, and these dishonest pundits said, Donald Trump has not broken 50. How do you break 50 when you have 14 people?But we won -- we won Massachusetts, we got over 49 percent.And Massachusetts is represented by Pocahontas, right? Pocahontas.Represented by Pocahontas. Oh, she's terrible. She is so -- she is just a terrible person, terrible. You know, Clinton thinks she is doing herself a favor to use this woman as a surrogate. Everybody that watches her, they say, she is a terrible human being, she is terrible.So, I don't know who's going to challenge her, but whoever does, you know, I hear a very great baseball pitcher is going to challenge her.He's a great -- and you know what, he's a great guy. I don't know if he's going to do it, but he's a great guy. But Elizabeth Warren is terrible -- and you know what, she's a terrible -- let me tell you, she's a terrible senator. Take a look at what she's passed, nothing, nothing. And in the Senate, everybody hates her. They don't want to even deal with her. So I'll make you a deal. You can have Pocahontas, I'll take Tom Brady and Bill Belichick, OK?And from now on, it's going to be America First.To all Americans I say it's time for change and time for leadership. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration. We're going to have the biggest tax cuts since Ronald Reagan, even bigger, and Hillary is going to raise your taxes substantially. We're going to eliminate every unnecessary job-killing regulation. We will cancel every illegal Obama executive order just...He goes out and plays golf so much that he doesn't have time to convince Congress to go -- let's do it the way it's supposed to be done, right? Right? I mean, he's played more golf than most people in the PGA Tour.This guy like is it over 300 rounds. Hey, look, it's good. Golf is fine, but always play with leaders of countries and people that can help us, don't play with your friends all the time.We are going to protect religious liberty...... re-build our military, and we are going to finally take care of our veterans properly, our veterans properly.Our veterans have been very mistreated, and I want to thank them for the tremendous support -- and the military -- the tremendous support I get. They do polls and it's like, forget it. It's like I'm not running against anybody. And our law enforcement has been so great.They've been great. We're going to provide school choice and put an end to Common Core. We're bringing our education locally.And we will support the men and women of law enforcement, great people.... and save our Second Amendment, which is under siege...... and appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.Think of this, I started on June 16th, long time ago from way back. Can you imagine this? And now I can say you have one day, but it's no longer one day, it's like just like tomorrow morning. Who is going to vote tomorrow morning, please?I promise you this, I will never ever let you down, I promise you that.I didn't need to do this. You know, I built a great company, one of the great companies, great, great -- some of the great real estate assets in the world. I enjoyed my life, and I was on the other side, you know, I'm criticizing the other side because I understand the other side as well as anybody. But our country was in trouble and I love our country, and I looked at what was happening.And I'm really happy I did this -- I'm really happy I did this. It's been an amazing experience, and we are indeed going to make our country great again. You have one day to make every dream, your every dream for your country and your family come true. You have one magnificent chance to beat this corrupt system and deliver justice for every forgotten man, for every forgotten woman, and for every forgotten child in this nation.Do not let this opportunity slip away, folks. It's never going to happen again, never going to happen. In four years from now, never going to happen again. And people are voting that they never saw before, these are great people, but they never saw anybody they wanted. They're voting in numbers like they've never seen in Texas, in Florida. No matter where you look, they're voting in number like they've never seen before.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.And we are fighting to bring us all together as Americans, just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people under one God, saluting one American flag.Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Such a great honor, incredible people. You're incredible people.I'm asking you to dream big, because with your vote, we are just one day away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life.To all of the people in all of our cities and towns, I say these words to you tonight, I am with you, I will fight for you, and I will win for you.I will win for you. Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Get out and vote. Thank you, everybody.Thank you very much. Thank you.Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.So, you know, we added this stop about 12 minutes ago, and look at this place. Is this incredible?And we don't need -- we don't need Jay-Z or Beyonce. We don't need Jon Bon Jovi. We don't need Lady Gaga. All we need is great ideas to make America great again. That's all we need.So, it's now officially Tuesday, November 8th.Did you ever think you'd be hearing a major speech like at around close to 1 o'clock in the morning? Are we crazy? Is this crazy?It's crazy.But you know, we just left New Hampshire, where we're doing fantastically well. We're up in New Hampshire. We're up in Ohio.We're up in Iowa. We're up in North Carolina. We're doing great there.We're up in Florida.We're doing really, really well in Pennsylvania. I mean, we are doing well. These people, the world's most dishonest people, the media, they are not happy. No, no.They're not happy. They're saying, "What's going on?"Today, we're going to win the great state of Michigan and we are going to win back the White House.I want to begin tonight by thanking all of you and all of the people in this incredible movement. You know, it's a movement like has never happened in this country before. It's a movement that nobody's ever seen before, even these people. They talk about it. It's one of the great political phenomenas, many of them have said it, even some of them who truly, truly dislike me. They've said this is one of the great phenomenas.I mean, look at this place at almost one o'clock in the morning.So, I love Michigan. And I was the man of the year or something like four or five years ago. And I came here, and I have so many friends in Michigan. But I came here to get the award. They asked me to make a speech. I made a speech, and I talked about how Michigan, they're ripping your auto companies apart. They're taking your jobs. They're closing your plants. And they're moving them to Mexico and other places, but mostly to Mexico in this case.And I talked about that. And everybody liked me in Michigan. I said, "But, you know, we have to do something about it." But I wasn't a politician. But I talked about it, and I kept talking about it and talking about it and talking. And then I see Ford moving a big plant, and then Ford just two weeks ago announcing their small cars are going to be produced and made entirely in Mexico.And it's getting worse and worse. And I developed a great relationship with the people of Michigan.So the reason I'm here is that I thought New Hampshire was going to be my last speech. And I heard that Crooked Hillary Clinton was coming to Michigan. I said, "Let's follow it up; let's follow it up."And I said there's no place I'd rather be for my last rally, right here in Michigan, late at night.And full of energy and life. Boy, do we have energy and life. Wow.Although this is our last rally of this campaign, it's almost hard to believe. We started a year-and-a-half ago. We started with 17 very talented people -- governors, senators, Dr. Ben Carson -- great guy; a lot of talented people.And one by one by one, and most of them have been terrific and give us great support. Ben Carson is one of them, as you know. But -- but who would have thought -- and now we have one flawed candidate left to beat -- one flawed candidate.It's going to be the very beginning of a new adventure, because the new adventure we have to win. We have to go out and vote. But the new adventure is making America great again. We're going to do it.After we win, I'm going to be coming back to Michigan a lot. I'm going to be coming back every time we open a new factory or a new automobile plant. And we will do it. And we'll do a lot of expansion. We're going to do a lot of expansion. I know exactly what to do, folks. We're not going to lose your jobs anymore. We're not going to lose your jobs anymore.We are going to bring back the automobile industry to Michigan -- bigger and better and stronger than ever before. You've been mistreated.Michigan now stands at the crossroads of history. If we win Michigan, we will win this historic election and then we truly will be able to do all of the things we want to do. They won't be taking our jobs any longer. They won't be doing the things they've been doing to us. We'll end up having great health care, strong borders. We'll build up our military. We have no choice. We have a depleted military. We'll be able to do the things we want to do.When you step into that voting booth today -- it's now today.There is one core question for you to consider. Do you want America to be ruled by the corrupt political class?Or do you want America to be ruled by you, the people? That's what it is -- by the people.The way it was supposed to have been for a long time. We've lost track. And for Michigan, we will bring back your automobile production and we will bring back your industry. Wait until you see what we do for Michigan. I've been talking about it for a long time. Crooked Hillary has not talked about it, folks. She doesn't know where to begin. She talked about bringing industry back to New York state when she was a New York state senator.Let me tell you, not only didn't it come back, look at up-state New York. It's a disaster. It got worse. People fled. Companies fled. It's a disaster.The corrupt politicians and their special interests have ruled over this country for a very long time. Today is our independence day.Today, the American working class is going to strike back finally.Real change begins with immediately repealing and replacing the disaster known as Obamacare.It has just been announced that the residents of Michigan are going to experience a massive double-digit premium hike, like you wouldn't believe. It's not going to matter that much, honestly, because we're going to terminate it. You're not going to have to worry about it. OK? Don't worry.Now, on the other hand, if something horrible happens tomorrow, get ready to pay a lot more than you're even paying now. But that's not going to happen. I'm looking at that fantastic young lady right there. She's shaking her head -- "No way, no way." Not going to happen, right?Good. Not going to happen.Nah, I don't think you're going to have to worry about the premiums. But with Obamacare, premiums are surging. Companies are leaving. Insurers are fleeing. Doctors are quitting. And deductibles are going right through the roof. Yet Hillary Clinton wants to double-down on Obamacare, making it even more expensive. And it doesn't work. It's no good.I'm asking for your vote so we can repeal and replace Obamacare and save health care for every family in Michigan and throughout the United States of America. We have to do it.We don't have a choice.Real change also means restoring honesty to our government. So the first thing we should do, let's get rid of Hillary. OK? That's probably the...That would be a very good first step. That's a good first step.Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to seek the office of the presidency of the United States.She is being protected by a totally rigged system that I've been talking about for a long time. It's a rigged system. Now it's up to the American people to deliver justice at the ballot box. And I don't have to say do it tomorrow, do it in a week. You're going to do it today. You'll go to sleep for a couple of hours, right?Go to sleep. You go to sleep for a couple of hours. You wake up. You cast your vote, then you can go back to sleep or go to work. You people won't go to sleep. You'll go back to work. I know my people. You'll get up after about two hours. You'll vote. And you'll go to work.I know my Michigan people. I know. I have so many friends here. They work. They don't stop. We are finally going to close the history books on the Clintons and their lies and schemes and corruption.We will open a bright new chapter focused on you, the American people. My contract with the American voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and to take our country back from the special interests. I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear our words, our words when we say -- you know what we're going to say? We're going to win today and we're going to Washington, D.C. to drain the swamp.Absolutely. Absolutely.Oh, you probably heard me say it: drain the swamp.Oh, this is beautiful. Isn't it too bad that the corrupt media never show the crowds? You know, it is like almost one in the morning and we have I think they said 18,000 people here. Every corner -- look at this.Every corner. And you know what they'll say? "Donald Trump is speaking before a crowd of people."These people are the worst. "He's speaking in front of a few thousand people."At the core of my contract is my plan to bring back our jobs. The trade policies of Hillary Clinton, from NAFTA to China to Korea to the Transpacific Partnership -- which, by the way, is a disaster...... have raided your factories, crushed your auto industry and gutted your communities. You know it. And she's not -- look folks, honestly, you couldn't give her a shot. You're wasting your time. You're wasting your time.She's not going to be able to do the job. She's not going to be able to do the job.Just look at her record. But forget her record, not going to be able to do the job. She doesn't have a clue. Michigan has lost more than one in four of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA, a deal signed by Bill Clinton and supported by his lovely wife, Hillary. Right?Right?By the way, you know who I spotted in the audience? Mayor Rudolph Giuliani.Rudy Giuliani.He's got energy, that guy. He's all over the place, going from place to place to place. Got a lot of energy. A lot of -- a lot of this up here too.We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world. There's never been anything like this. Our jobs are being stolen like candy from a baby. Not going to happen anymore, folks. There are going to be consequences.There are going to be -- when they fire our people, our great people who have been working for 25, 30 years at these companies -- they fire our people, there are going to be consequences. It doesn't work that way, not anymore.And the politicians have been working on this problem for 15 years, for 20 years. And it's so simple to solve. Delphi laid off 3,627 workers and moved their jobs to Mexico and other countries.FTE Automotive laid of 166 workers in Auburn Hills, beautiful place, and moved their jobs to Mexico.Chrysler laid off 5,300 workers and moved their jobs to Mexico, China and to other countries. Ford laid off 2,155 workers and moved their jobs to Mexico and many other countries.Now Ford is moving all of its small car production of Mexico. Isn't that wonderful? It used to be that cars were made in Flint and you couldn't drink the water in Mexico. Now the cars are made in Mexico and you can't drink the damn water in Flint.What the hell?Yes.Unbelievable. Say, is that true though, or what? Unbelievable.You know, I have a friend, he's the biggest in the world at building plants. That's what he does, he builds plants. You say, "Build an apartment " and he wouldn't know what to do. He builds plants, the biggest plants in the world; most sophisticated plants, all kinds of plants.I said, "How are you doing?" He's from this country. Loves this country, loves this whole area, loves you people. He wants to do them here. So I said to him, "Let me ask you, how are you doing?"He said, "Unbelievable." I said, "Oh, that's good; that's good. Where are you doing well?" "Mexico." I said, "What about our country?" "Not so good, " he said, "Donald, you have to see what we're doing in Mexico. We're building some of the greatest plants anywhere in the world." And I said, "Isn't this sad, isn't this pathetic?"We're going to change it around. I want Mexico to build great plants. But we need to build great plants also. It's got to be a two-way street, folks.Got to be a two-way street.And right now, it's a one-lane highway right into these other countries. They take our money. They take our jobs. They build their plants. They build their factories. We end up with unemployment and drugs. That's what we end up with.Not going to happen any longer. A Trump administration will stop the jobs from leaving America and we will stop the jobs from leaving Michigan. That I can tell you 100 percent.If Ford or another company wants to fire their workers in Michigan and move to another country and ship their products back into the United States, I will pick up the phone myself if I -- because I love it -- they don't want me to do that, folks. I want to do it. It's so easy. I love doing it. It's like I'm a natural. But I'll have plenty of great representatives.But we -- we -- I'm going to do it every once in a while. I don't care, because I love it. We'll be calling the executives at Ford or whatever company it is, and we'll tell them very nicely that if they want to move their factory or their plant to another country, they will have to pay a 35 percent tax when they sell their cars or their product back into the United States through what will soon be a very, very powerful border.So they'll pay a tax. And here's what's going to happen 100 percent. Nobody's moving, folks. They're not going to move. They're not going to move, OK?Just think of it. Don't worry about it. We'll build a wall.Don't worry about it. A Trump administration will renegotiate NAFTA and if we don't get the deal we want, we will terminate NAFTA and get a much better deal for our workers and our companies -- 100 percent.We will also immediately stop the job-killing Transpacific Partnership, which Hillary Clinton called the "gold standard." And she lied. Look, she lied. During the debate -- by the way, did Trump win the debate? Did Trump win the debate?And by the way, he's here. Did Mike Pence win the debate?Man, was that an easy -- it wasn't easy. It wasn't easy, but he certainly made it look easy, didn't he? How good is this guy?Wow. Honestly, I felt so sorry for Tim Kaine. That was like -- that was like a great football team playing your local high school football players.So Hillary lied about it. She said it was the gold standard. And we caught her in the lie, and all of that. But when you think about it, it is the gold standard. It's the gold standard for the other countries, not for us -- for the other countries we're doing business with. Can't do it.Hillary will pass the TPP. She will absolutely pass it, which will destroy the rest of the auto industry. Believe me. It will -- just mark my words -- it will destroy. They don't even talk about currency manipulation in TPP. And they didn't want to, because it was taken out because some of our politicians wanted it taken out -- the number one weapon. They wanted it taken out because the special interests take care of our politicians, folks.But they're not taking care of me. I've spent a fortune on this campaign. And I'll tell you, I told this to Mike Pence. If we don't win -- because everyone is saying unbelievable, unbelievable; it doesn't matter if you win or lose; there's never been a movement like this.I said, "Let me just tell you, stop right there. If we don't win, this will be the single greatest waste of time, energy and money in my life." We have to win. To do what we have to do, we have to win. We can't just have something that looks wonderful in the history books in 30 years.As part of our plan to bring back jobs, we are going to lower taxes on American business from 35 percent to 15 percent.We will massively cut taxes for the middle class. Hillary Clinton wants to raise your taxes very significantly.Think of it. We're the highest-taxed nation in the world, and she wants to raise your taxes.And we will rebuild our inner cities. I know so much about Detroit. I know so much about the inner cities. The African-American community, the Hispanic community has been treated horribly for a long time.The politicians and the case of the inner cities -- virtually all Democrats, for over 100 years sometimes a chain unbroken. What they've done is they come in and they get your vote, and then they say, "See you -- four years, I'll see you in four years." We're going to fix our inner cities. Right now, they're so unsafe. You walk to the store to pick up a loaf of bread, you get shot, you get shot.You know, in Chicago, thousands and thousands of shootings since January 1st. The inner cities are unbelievably dangerous. The education is no good, the safety is horrible, and there are no jobs. And I tell everybody, "What the hell do you have to lose? I'm going to fix it." We will fix it.We will fix it. Vice President Mike Pence will be involved and he is so enthused about this. There is such potential. We have such potential in the -- the people, I'm talking about the people. There's such potential there. We will fix it, remember that.We will become a rich nation once again. But to be a rich nation, we must also be a safe nation. Hillary Clinton wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees pouring into our country.And virtually unlimited immigration from the most dangerous regions of the world, including regions overrun and controlled by ISIS. Her plan will import generations of terrorism, extremism, and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities. When I'm elected president, we will suspend the Syrian refugee program.And we will keep radical Islamic terrorists the hell out of our country, 100 percent.Here in Michigan, you've seen first-hand the problems caused with the refugee program, with large numbers of poorly vetted refugees pouring into your state without your knowledge, without your support, or without your approval. Nobody even knows where people are being placed. A Trump administration will not admit any refugees without the support of the local community where they're being placed.A Trump administration will also secure and defend the borders of the United States, and yes, we will build a great, great wall.So, I just want to ask you one question, if you don't mind, at one in the morning: Who is going to pay for the wall?A hundred percent. They don't know it yet, but they're going to pay. Now, we're going to have a great relationship with Mexico, but right now it's a one-way street. We can't have that. We can't have that. They're going to build the wall.Hillary supports totally open borders. There goes your country. And strongly supports sanctuary cities like San Francisco where Kate Steinle was murdered by an illegal immigrant deported at least five times.A Trump administration will end this nightmare of violence and end it quickly. We will stop illegal immigration, deport all criminal aliens and dismantle every last criminal gang and cartel threatening our wonderful citizens.We're going to do it, easily, quickly.We will also repeal the Obama-Clinton defense sequester and rebuild our badly depleted military.There haven't been many times where we need it more. I'm honored to have the endorsement of more than 200 top admirals and generals and 22 Medal of Honor recipients, and that list just grew a lot larger today.Hillary Clinton and our failed establishment have dragged us into foreign wars that have made us less safe, shipped our wealth overseas to other countries and left our borders at home totally wide open.That will change when we win the presidency. That will change, that will change. Has to change, it has to change.From now on, it's going to be America First, America First.And just in summing up, to all Americans I say, it is time for change. It is time for leadership. Just think about what we can accomplish in the first 100 days of a Trump administration.We're going to have the largest tax cut since Ronald Reagan.And Hillary wants to raise your taxes. We will eliminate every unnecessary, job-killing regulation. We'll cancel every illegal Obama executive order. We will protect religious liberty.And yesterday, it was Billy Graham's 98th birthday, meaning an hour ago. Yesterday, meaning an hour ago. But he's a great, great man and his son Franklin has been so amazing. But I wanted to mention Billy Graham, 98 years old, amazing.We're going to rebuild our military and take care of our veterans who have not been taken care of properly. We are going to take care of our vets.It's about time, believe me. It's about time. We're going to provide school choice and put an end to common core. We're bringing education local.We will support the great men and women of law enforcement.We will save our Second Amendment, which is under siege.The election is now. The election is now. Can you believe it? It's today. It's today. It's unbelievable.You can make every dream you've ever dreamed for your country and your family come true. You have one magnificent chance to beat this corrupt, rigged system and to deliver justice for every forgotten man and forgotten woman and forgotten child in this nation.We are fighting for every citizen who believes that government should serve the people, not the donors and not the special interests.And we are fighting to bring us all together as Americans. We're living in a divided nation. We're living in a very divided nation. We're going to be brought together.Just imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as one people, under one God, saluting one American flag, right?I'm asking you to dream big, because with your vote, we are just hours away from the change you've been waiting for your entire life.So to every parent who dreams for their child, and to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight. I am with you. I will fight for you. And I will win for you. I promise.To all Americans tonight, in all of our cities and in all of our towns, I pledge to you one more time, together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again. And we will make America great again.Thank you, everybody. Thank you.God bless you, everybody. Go to bed. Go to bed right now. Get up and vote.Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Michigan. We love you. We'll be back. Let's win.Thank you.